For the Journal-Constitution 
DATE: April 18, 2007 
PUBLICATION: Atlanta Journal-Constitution, The (GA) 
EDITION: Main; The Atlanta Journal-Constitution 
SECTION: Editorial 
PAGE: A15 

GUN CONTROL
Our sacred freedoms all come with a price
Unfortunately, the terrible tragedy at Virginia Tech will renew an irresponsible call to ban firearms. However, certain amendments to our Constitution do bring tragedy from time to time. Vicious criminals are freed daily because of the Fourth (search and seizure), Fifth (self-incrimination) and Sixth (right to an attorney) Amendments. As a result, thousands of citizens are murdered, raped and assaulted through no fault of their own. But we hold these three amendments so sacred we are willing to pay that price.
The Second Amendment should be no less sacred, for the others ultimately depend on it. Those adult students and professors did not have the ability to defend themselves. I would dread living in a nation where I also lost that right.
JAMES COOL, Alpharetta
Founders would hate today's gun culture
With each new incident of gun violence in this country, Americans become more fearful for their lives and safety. We lock ourselves away from each other in gated communities. We look suspiciously at each other for fear that we might be harmed. Our country as a whole is experiencing a form of post-traumatic stress syndrome in that there are epidemic cases of depression and other mental illnesses.
Our forefathers never intended the Second Amendment to be abused the way the NRA and other gun proponents have used it. They never would have written this amendment into the Constitution had they known the havoc and grief that it has caused. These were intelligent men who were reacting to the times. But times have changed.
MICHAEL DE GIVE, Atlanta
The defenseless died
I feel for the families who lost loved ones in this tragedy at Virginia Tech. The gun control folks will point to this as another reason to make more gun control laws. I wonder how many people there had a gun permit? I also wonder how many lives would have been saved if someone was armed and took action against the criminal? This is something to think seriously about.
TOM LEE, Atlanta
Bush is hypocritical to condemn violence
The violence at Virginia Tech highlights extremes in American culture. The carnage on the campus is shocking and decried from the streets to the White House while we are encouraged by the Bush administration to dismiss staggering casualty numbers in Iraq.
I have to question the capability of gun advocates who encourage the proliferation of weapons across the country and an administration that advocates the invasion of Iraq and prolonged engagement to provide reasonable solutions to the deplorable status quo.
It is time for changes.
PETER S. MORGAN JR., Roswell
Israelis show value of an armed society
Once again, due to restrictive gun laws, we have a terrible loss of life. This kind of carnage would not and could not have happened in Tel Aviv because the Israelis take personal responsibility for their own safety. Many adults routinely carry weapons and have in the past stepped in to halt people who have gone on a rampage.
How many lives would have been saved if every teacher was required to be armed and every student who wished to be armed had been armed. One prepared person would have been able to step up and stop the perpetrator.
This incident also shows how vulnerable the United States is to a terrorist attack because average citizens have no ability to protect themselves or others.
DAVID CHAMBERLAIN, Smyrna
EMERGENCY RESPONSE
When shots ring out, police must storm in
Memo to law enforcement officers: When shots are fired inside a classroom building, you will assume that someone is shooting students or teachers. You will not assume that it is a hostage situation. Therefore, you will do all that is necessary to enter the building immediately to stop whoever is shooting the students or teachers.
Surrounding the building with weapons pointed at the entrances at this point is of secondary importance to getting inside to stop the killing. Your quick response may save a student's or teacher's life.
THOMAS M. WEST, Atlanta
Blaming school is ignorant and unfair
Everyone seems to be blaming Virginia Tech President Charles Steger for what happened at the college. Perhaps he should have been clairvoyant and known that a mass murderer was loose on campus.
Mass murderers usually don't stop for a coffee break during the middle of their killing spree: They continue until they are shot, cornered, or commit suicide. Charles Steger did everything any responsible person in authority would do after the first two people were killed.
GEORGE BARTON, Sharpsburg
Text message system best to alert students
I have five children. Three have graduated college, one is a senior at the University of Wyoming, and the last is a freshman at Georgia Southern.
As a parent, it is always a challenge to "reach your student" on a timely basis. Cellphone calls, voicemails and e-mails go unanswered for hours, even days. That is, they did, until now. Now we have text messaging! Kids answer these things immediately.
One of the big issues in the Virginia Tech tragedy was the inability to alert the students of the imminent danger.
Perhaps every university should have the cellphone number of every student loaded into the communications system computer. In emergencies, they could "blast" a text message to all. I guarantee that more than 80 percent would see the message within minutes.
Nothing else comes close.
GRANT ESSEX, Milton
E-mail can't compete with text messaging
Regarding the tragedy at Virginia Tech: While it will always remain unclear what effect warning the students would have had, what is clear is that an e-mail notice, no matter how quickly sent, is woefully inadequate.
The university's president himself said that 9,000 resident students were in various stages of going to class, and that another 11,000 were arriving by car, meaning not many students had access to a potentially lifesaving notification.
A much better solution, as anybody who spends any time around young people knows, is text messaging. A system to send text messages to all students would bring an instantaneous awareness to virtually the entire student body when urgent action is needed. (Even those few without cellphones will inevitably be near someone who does have one.)
Such a system would take no more effort than the current one of collecting e-mail addresses, and I would hope that this simple and potentially lifesaving procedure is one of the lessons learned from this tragedy.
GARY McGRATH, Marietta
LUCKOVICH CARTOON
Cynical exploitation of a national tragedy
As the parent of a recent Virginia Tech graduate, I was outraged by the Mike Luckovich cartoon of April 17. To use this senseless tragedy and the deaths of 33 people to take a shot at President Bush and the war in Iraq is outrageous.
I don't think any quasi-intellectual babble from the AJC or Luckovich can justify the thoughtlessness and callousness of his cartoon printed before the blood has been cleaned off the floors of Norris Hall and less than 24 hours after this tragedy occurred. I demand an apology from the AJC and Luckovich.
JAMES H. ELLIOTT, Decatur
A cheap dig at Bush
The cartoon by Mike Luckovich exceeded all known thresholds for insensitivity by using the Virginia Tech shooting tragedy to illustrate the AJC's hatred for President Bush. The callousness of the cartoon cannot be ignored during a time when parents are just learning about the death of their children. This newspaper owes everyone an immediate apology and Luckovich should be sanctioned accordingly.
ART CODY, Suwanee
Incredibly unfeeling
Mike Lukovich's cartoon about the Virginia Tech murders is so crass and insensitive as to be unbelievable. On a day in which over 30 families are mourning their loss of young men and women struck down in the prime of their life, using the occasion to make some sort of political statement is beyond belief.
It is a heinous act all its own. The AJC should publish an apology for this appalling absence of judgment.
IKE YANCY, Milton
AJC's front-page headline sensationalized tragedy
My first thought upon seeing the AJC's April 17 Page One banner headline, "Bloodbath," was: "Are we playing 'Grand Theft Auto: Vice City' or reading about a terrible shooting?"
In addition to his pistol, was the lone gunman also toting a machete? Did he go swashbuckling through the building, turning it into an animal slaughterhouse -- hence all the blood and gore?
No. To the best of my knowledge, the scene went like this: "bang," "bang"; two hours pass; then, "bang," "bang," "bang," ad nauseam. And then a final "bang" when the gunman shot himself in the face. Were pools of blood dripping down from the second floor?
No? This is what the word "bloodbath" implies. I felt that was a fairly sensational and deplorable word selection. One only has to check out the front pages of the country's other newspapers to find how ill-conceived this particular headline was. I lost quite a bit of respect for your paper as a result of this inconsiderate and flatly inaccurate banner.
JEREMY STYRON, Clayton
We can and we must make schools safer
I would think after the continuous school shootings that have occurred within the past 15 years, our federal government and the local school boards would realize this is an epidemic and our children are not safe. It should be passed into law that every school, private and public, every college, every institution that houses our children for learning purposes be made to provide metal detectors at every entrance to the school. I don't want to hear about the cost, and neither do the parents. We must protect our children at all cost.
I urge every citizen to demand from your local school boards, the state, and even the federal government, to protect our children. Demand that all schools be equipped with metal detectors at every entrance. Protect our future by protecting our children at school.
JEREMY S. HOBBS, Columbus
Violent entertainment warps our souls
My wife asked me how someone could even think of performing the atrocities at Virginia Tech. Without a clue how someone thinks of those things, I could not answer.
Instead, I turned on the TV to watch "24," which happened to be on that same evening. Though no one died on "24" that night, the TV ads for movies "Vacancy," "Grindhouse" and "The Condemned" showed plenty of violence -- and far more graphically than does "24."
Suddenly, the answer to my wife's question seemed obvious.
SHAWN BUCKLEY, Jonesboro 

