For the Journal-Constitution
DATE: April 19, 2007
PUBLICATION: Atlanta Journal-Constitution, The (GA)
EDITION: Main; The Atlanta Journal-Constitution
SECTION: Editorial
PAGE: A18

Virginia Tech shootings
Want to buy a gun? First, prove a need
What happened on the Virginia Tech campus will happen again and again and again in this gun-crazy country. And each time, people will utter the same platitudes, "Ain't it awful!"
So often the killers are young men who simply walk into a gun store or are members of a sports rifle club. Easy availability of guns contributes heavily to increasing the number of people killed. All the NRA arguments fail against that simple statistic, which can easily be proven by comparing fatality figures from different countries and even different states within the United States.
Even though one cannot totally prevent such tragic incidents, owning a gun without proving a legitimate need should be illegal in the United States.
PEGGY RONEY, Avondale Estates
Accountability
Defenders of the Second Amendment: Either accept restrictions on your rights, or accept a measure of responsibility for the Virginia Tech killings and ones that are sure to follow.
MICHAEL PROFIT, Atlanta
Society has to tackle pressures head-on
After learning about the massacre at Virginia Tech while driving home, I openly wept. I don't remember the last time that happened, but it did. As a freshman at the University of Georgia, I watched Columbine unfold, as well as other tragic shootings across the country. Now, as a high school teacher, I can only say that the problem is far from over.
Every day, it is obvious that the same teens humming the teen unity anthems of Disney's "High School Musical" are the same kids that heap social pressures on others.
When is society going to evolve from this petty Edith Wharton-esque, rice cooker of a social system?
Who will write the novel, set the example, or just change the way we all look at each other?
There has to be a better way.
DEAN SCHAUB, Cumming
Stop terroristic cycle of violence
"Suicide bomber (killer) strikes in the U.S." is what the Page One headline of April 17 could read and be somewhat correct. The carnage at Virginia Tech should remind Americans of what the people of Iraq endure daily.
For any people to endure what the students at Virginia Tech have gone through is horrific. Are their words enough to describe what has happened?
The human psyche can endure only so much. This cycle of violence must and should end. The American people are known for doing what is morally the "right things."
CALVIN S. WARD, Atlanta
--
Glorious celebration outshines ugly history
Heartfelt thanks to reporter Jim Auchmutey and the marvelous photos by Mikki K. Harris for an informative, uplifting and very sensitive story on the homecoming concert by the choirs of the Antioch East Baptist Church in the old stone church at the edge of Candler Park, a solid and beautiful building built by hand by their earlier members and now loved and cared for by the First Existentialist Congregation of Atlanta (" 'Going Home,' " Living, April 16).
It was a joyous celebration by the two congregations of the human spirit and of survival -- and a serious commemoration of a history that all of us committed to justice and human liberation want to see studied, taught and kept alive in every way possible.
I especially appreciated the happiness expressed by the chairman of Antioch's media ministry who had never before known the history of the church, even though he had caddied at the golf course across the street. History can unearth sadness, racism and collective guilt as the whites among us recognize the ways we have profited from the white privilege that the more negative aspects of that history have maintained; but it also allows us to exult in the acts of love, determination and hope that are also an important part of that same history.
LINDA BELL
Bell, of Decatur, is a board member of the First Existentialist Congregation.
An ideal way to see through candidates
Dick Polman's guest column on the Rudy Giuliani gallon of milk test misses the mark ("Giuliani fails test ... who cares?" April 16).
When the press asks the question, "Do you know what a gallon of milk costs," and the candidate responds by pretending they do, like Republican presidential contender Giuliani, or by panicking and turning to an aide for help, like the Lamar Alexander incident that Polman references, they reveal far more important about themselves than their answer to a mundane question. Rather than offer honestly that they do not know, they pretend to be something they are not.
By contrast, Democratic presidential candidate John Edwards was honest when he said he didn't know the what a six pack of beer cost because he had not bought one in years. Likewise, Franklin D. Roosevelt and John F. Kennedy were never lampooned for not being one of the people because they did not pretend to be what they are not.
BILL NEWNAM, Atlanta


<ImageData>
Photo
AMY SANCETTA / Associated Press
In memory of those killed in Monday's shootings, thousands of students attend a convocation Tuesday at a stadium at Virginia Tech. The massacre, in which the death toll has reached 33, is labeled the worst of its kind in U.S. history.
</ImageData>
<ImageData>
Photo
MIKKI K. HARRIS / Staff
During a recent homecoming, members of Antioch East Baptist Church join members of First Existentialist Congregation of Atlanta, which worships where Antioch was housed decades ago.
