For the Journal-Constitution
DATE: April 22, 2007
PUBLICATION: Atlanta Journal-Constitution, The (GA)
EDITION: Main; The Atlanta Journal-Constitution
SECTION: Editorial
PAGE: C5

Pulitzer Prizes: CYNTHIA TUCKER
Responses to "AJC's Tucker, Klibanoff, Atlanta poet win Pulitzers," Page One, April 17
Respect stands tall against grumbles
As an 87-year-old Southern white man, I often read your column and grumble about what you write. But, in spite of that, I have great respect for you and what you have accomplished and offer my sincere congratulations on your winning the Pulitzer Prize.
I think that is just great.
CHARLEY KELLY, Woodstock
Opinion logical
The committee that awards the Pulitzer has honored all of us by choosing you. I read your column often, and honestly, you challenge what I consider my "sense and sensibilities" with logical commentary. I, like many, am proud of you.
STEVE DUKE, Watkinsville
Speaks the truth
Congratulations on a well-deserved Pulitzer Prize -- and no surprise to me. I have long looked forward to your columns and admired your courage in taking on power to speak truth.
It is a personal delight to see that your work is nationally recognized.
MARY CAROLE COONEY, Atlanta
Courageous voice challenges readers
Congratulations to Cynthia Tucker for her recent Pulitzer Prize. Cynthia has been consistently clear, courageous, honest and challenging in her commentary.
Sooner or later she makes each of us uncomfortable with our unexamined ideas and positions. Her recent column dealing with guns in society was on target with public health science. Our country's love affair with guns is indeed dangerous to our health.
I can think of no one who is more deserving of a Pulitzer Prize. It is hoped that she will continue to inform, enlighten and challenge us for many years to come.
Thank you, Cynthia.
DAVID SATCHER
Dr. Satcher is former U.S. surgeon general and director of the Center of Excellence on Health Disparities at Morehouse School of Medicine
TUCKER AND KLIBANOFF: Move over punch line; time for congrats!
If someone doesn't put a stop to all these Alabamians winning Pulitzers, I'll have to give up on my line that "most people in Alabama think that 'Hee Haw' is a documentary."
Warmest congratulations.
BOB STEED, Atlanta
An honor and a lifetime achievement
For both of you to be recognized with a Pulitzer is a splendid lifetime achievement. In your personal histories and even your obits (many, many years from now), the lead will include "Pulitzer Prize-winning journalist Cynthia Tucker" and "Pulitzer Prize-winning author Hank Klibanoff."
Your bring distinction to the AJC, to your staffs and to your families. I am very proud of both of you.
TOM JOHNSON
Johnson, of Atlanta, is the former publisher of the Los Angeles Times and former CEO of CNN.
HANK KLIBANOFFL: Book gives overdue notice to the press
I saw that you and [co-author] Gene Roberts received the Pulitzer [for history]. What a great choice, and how wonderfully fitting and deserved. You not only told this pivotally important but overlooked part of the civil rights story, your book ["The Race Beat; The Press, the Civil Rights Struggle and the Awakening of a Nation"] also gives lasting recognition to the black press as a unit, and to the courageous reporters and editors both black and white who made the world see what was happening, and in doing so made it possible for the civil rights movement to redeem the country.
TOM GRAHAM
Graham, of Portland, Ore., is the co-author, with his daughter Rachel Graham Cody, of "Getting Open: The Unknown Story of Bill Garrett and the Integration of College Basketball."
You're one of us
Congratulations! What a plum for you. We at the Atlanta Press Club are honored to have you as a member.
PAULA HOVATER
Hovater is press conference coordinator at the Atlanta Press Club.
'So richly deserved'
Congratulations! Man, so richly deserved. How sweet it is.
ALEX KOTLOWITZ
Kotlowitz, of Oak Park, Ill., is the author of "There Are No Children Here: The Story of Two Boys Growing Up in the Other America."
A reason to dance
I'm dancing around my living room. I love it when good things happen to good people.
TANYA BARRIENTOS, Philadelphia
A timely reminder that press matters
I picked up "The Race Beat" a few weeks ago, partly out of obligation to read books by old colleagues. But I quickly found it engrossing. The research is exhaustive, yet the detail and nuance don't overwhelm the narrative. The triplay between the black press (Northern and Southern variations), the white national press and the white Southern press is fascinating.
I'm only halfway through, but find myself wondering about the extent to which the journalists are truly actors or mostly reactors. The Montgomery bus boycott could only be ignored for so long. The standoff in Little Rock was impossible to ignore and flowed inevitably from the Supreme Court ruling [in Brown v. Board of Education]. So, was the media forced by events and prime movers such as the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. to provide the necessary publicity or did key actors within the press make a historic difference?
[The Pulitzer] is wonderful recognition to you both [Klibanoff and Gene Roberts]. Beyond the contribution to the history of the civil rights movement, the appearance of a book at this point in time that reminds people of why the press matters is truly significant.
DONALD KIMELMAN, Philadelphia
Voter fraud
Responses to Cynthia Tucker's column, "GOP still can't find those FVs -- fake voters," April 15
Republicans don't deserve the hate
One has to wonder whether Cynthia Tucker is living in an alternate universe. When writing about voter fraud, she accuses Republicans of always claiming voter fraud whenever they lose an election. When reading this I laughed so hard, my morning coffee came out of my nose.
Just the opposite is true. Has she forgotten the 2000 presidential election? Democrats are still claiming that Al Gore was robbed. Has she forgotten former U.S. Rep. Cynthia McKinney blaming those rascally Republicans for cheating her out of her rightful congressional seat? Even the 2004 presidential election had Democratic nominee John F. Kerry and his people claiming the cheating Republicans stole Ohio, depriving him of the presidency.
I'm sure Tucker knows all this, but, hey, why miss an opportunity to slander those hated Republicans, even if the facts don't support it.
JOHNEY R. FRIAR, Auburn
Dems are ones who are whining lately
Opening sentences are important and Cynthia Tucker would do well to remember that. Her column began with: "Republicans seem to believe that if they lose an election, somebody cheated."
Conveniently forgetting the reactions to the elections in 2000, 2002 and 2004, she makes it easy to write off anything that follows as a partisan hack with neither a sense of history nor a logical mind.
PAUL G. SHERER, Jefferson
GOP's about power
The Republican Party, and in particular the Bush administration, is so phony. At election time, they are the ones who always try to suppress voter turnout, especially among African-Americans and the poor. The lower the turnout, the better chance they have to win. The self-acclaimed party of moral and family values does whatever it takes to attain and retain political power, even if it means taking the low road.
PAUL L. WHITELEY SR., Louisville, Ky.
Virginia Tech massacre: With guns in mix, emotions take over
It's amazing the number of letter writers claiming that "if only everyone had a gun," Seung-Hui Cho might have been prevented from killing as many as he did. I will argue that may very well be the case. The downside of an ubiquitous gun-toting society is that all of the undiagnosed borderline sociopaths such as Cho would have those guns as well, which could only mean an increase in impulsive violent behavior.
Consider how many news reports we hear every week just in Atlanta about how a simple argument quickly escalated to guns being drawn. We have clear proof that when more people have guns, they will use them more as a means of quick emotional conflict resolution and far less for defensive needs.
PAUL BRIGHTBILL, East Point
Horror of senseless shooting captured
In an April 18 letter, the writer described as "sensational and deplorable" the headline "Bloodbath" on Page One of the April 17 newspaper.
My dictionary defines "blood bath" as "the killing of many people; massacre." What else could you call the senseless shooting at Virginia Tech?
I think the AJC headline captured the horror of the event perfectly. It certainly reflected the horror I felt when listening to the comments of those at the scene and seeing the pictures of the wounded being carried out of the building.
Perhaps the letter writer should check the dictionary before calling the headline "inconsiderate and flatly inaccurate."
JOYCE BONE COX, Newnan
30 slayings justify strong, vivid label
Let me get this straight: More than 30 people are shot to death and several others are wounded, and this is not sufficient carnage to be labeled a "bloodbath"?
Just how many people need to be shot and how much blood must be spilled to qualify for that distinction? Is 50 enough? Does it have to be at least 100?
If, as a society, we have become so inundated with gore by violence in our games, our movies and on the nightly news that a mere 30 deaths isn't enough to get all that excited about, then that is truly sad.
BILL FARKAS, Norcross
Bloodbath describes situation perfectly
I think the letter writer needs to review the definition of "blood bath." It does not require that one go "swashbuckling through the building, turning it into an animal slaughterhouse" nor does it require that "blood drips down from the 2nd floor."
It is irresponsible for the letter writer to attempt to reduce the magnitude of the crime to "bang, bang, ad nauseum." What happened in those classrooms to those teachers and children requires so much more than "bang, bang, ad nauseum."
If the writer does not believe that the murder of 32 people, the suicide of 1 and the wounding of 29 more is not a bloodbath, then that is what I find most disturbing. One can only imagine the scenes inside those classrooms. Death is not neat and tidy, and this reader thinks "bloodbath" said it all.
TARA WIDENER, Atlanta
Laws wouldn't have stopped him
I don't know who I hold in greater contempt: the gun nuts who think that if only the faculty and student body of Virginia Tech had all been armed then none of this would have happened; or the anti-gun nuts who believe that if we only registered or banned guns, none of this would have happened.
To the former, if we become a more heavily armed society, a larger percentage of personal conflicts will become fire fights.
To the latter, anyone willing to break the law against murder, 32 times, is willing to obtain a gun illegally.
Bad things happen. Passing legislation or packing heat will not change that.
BRYAN JAMES, Athens
Why lawfully allow semi-automatics?
Does anyone believe that the framers of our Constitution could have foreseen the day when firearm magazine capacities and rates of fire would make events such as the shootings at Virginia Tech possible? In their day, a trained marksman might be able to fire a flintlock weapon three or four times a minute as opposed to today's semi-automatic weapons that can fire that many in a second.
Gun proponents who favor a "strict constructionist" (that is "what the framers really had in mind") interpretation of the Second Amendment aren't being intellectually honest when they contend that their unfettered rights extend to these types of weapons.
STEVE RUTHERFORD, Roswell
Changes in security, media coverage needed in wake of shootings
The aftermath of the Virginia college massacre leaves me with several concerns.
First, the finger-pointing relative to gun availability leaves me shaking with the thought of thousands of hungover teenage college students becoming loose-cannon Rambos. A sound solution to college safety relative to gun availability would be to allow professors who obtain gun permits to keep a firearm in a locked classroom desk drawer for use in emergencies.
The manner in which students are alerted to possible danger needs refinement. I suggest a three-phased sequence. First, a campus-wide siren is sounded followed immediately by a public address system announcement. This should be followed up with an e-mail message. The first two steps should be repeated every 15 minutes until the danger has passed.
The massive media coverage, which was precisely what this nut-case wanted, was overdone in a big way -- especially the graphic coverage of the video he sent to NBC. Fox News was going nonstop on this for three days now. This only serves to encourage copycats to attempt to set a new "record."
Last of all, if colleges have the right to accept or reject applicants, they should have greater latitude in expelling problem students without violating their so-called "privacy" rights.
JAY WAGNER, Stone Mountain
Before we 'stay awake,' we must first wake up, reach out
I enjoyed Rick Badie's column ("Let's stay awake after this nightmare" AJC Gwinnett News, April 18) regarding the Virginia Tech tragedy. I really resonated with his sound wisdom to reach out to those who, for whatever reason, have a difficult time fitting in.
I remember going to a workshop with an author who wrote about parenting, and he said the single most important thing to help our kids was to help them foster at least one meaningful friendship. With just one true friend, you can weather a lot of storms. More important than good grades, than being popular, than being athletic is just one good friend.
I feel sad that Cho Seung-Hui didn't have that friend and instead resorted to a tragic expression of his pain.
To "stay awake," we have to "wake up" first. I don't hear many voices, such as Mr. Badie's, trying to address the roots of this problem -- to reach out to those in pain instead of avoiding, ignoring, ridiculing, or even punishing them. It's difficult to have compassion for someone when they are sending out "leave me alone" signals, but the world is full of people starving for some understanding and empathy. And too often, the only way they feel understood, the only action they know to take to get the empathy they yearn for (often unconsciously) is to inflict pain on someone else.
I hope we can wake up and see how choosing support vs. judgment of others can help ease their pain so that they don't have to take such drastic steps to be heard. One way I've found that has helped me better understand why people do the violent things they do and has given me hope that I can transform violence is a process called Nonviolent Communication (www.cnvc.org). If we could learn to speak to and be with each other in this way, we would have a better chance of reaching someone who is on the brink of a desperate act.
SHERRI BOLES-ROGERS, Dunwoody
