For the Journal-Constitution
DATE: April 23, 2007
PUBLICATION: Atlanta Journal-Constitution, The (GA)
EDITION: Main; The Atlanta Journal-Constitution
SECTION: Editorial
PAGE: A14

Atlanta population rebuttal
The writer of the April 16 letter headlined, "Population claims weren't accurate," is the one who has completely distorted the facts and made false claims as he accuses me of doing in my earlier letter.
First, according to the census bureau, the Boston-Manchester-Worcester combined statistical area has about 8 million people in eastern Massachusetts, northern Rhode Island and southeastern New Hampshire. The bureau states that Atlanta has 5 million.
Second, Boston to Worcester is 34 miles, not 42, and Dallas to Fort Worth is 35 miles, not 30.
Third, Nashua, N.H., is 30 miles from Boston, not 47, and is not included in the Boston metro area, but the Manchester-Nashua metro area.
Fourth, people as far away as Maine, Concord, N.H., and southern Rhode Island commute daily to Boston.
Fifth, the excuse that Georgia's counties are smaller than the ones in New England does not mean Atlanta's area is smaller.
Sixth, Atlanta's population includes cities that are 70 miles out from Atlanta, while Boston's goes out only 50 miles. Atlanta is also not larger than Miami.
MATT SCHENK, Atlanta
Christians still persecuted
New York Times columnist Paul Krugman's column about "religious infiltration" into the government was Christian-phobic ("Still, religious infiltration marches on," April 16).
In this age of so-called tolerance, is it only important to tolerate those whose views match Hollywood?
Generations parented by TV sets are coming of age with a warped sense of morality. To them, the greatest commandment is "Thou shalt recycle" instead of "Love the Lord your God . . . and love your neighbor as yourself." They still find hate speech acceptable if it's against Christians.
If our nation is aiming for true tolerance instead of just political correctness, we need to respect everyone -- not just those with a liberal bias.
Krugman has nothing to fear from genuine Christians in public office. It's a much greater risk to elect pseudo-intellectuals who worship themselves.
TRACY HARRAST, Watkinsville
Virginia Tech shootings
Gun-toting police even pose dangers
After serving the public as a Marine in Vietnam, bomb technician and law enforcement officer, I still have difficulty understanding the American public's fascination with firearms.
With the horrible shootings at Virginia Tech and the equally horrible police shootings of two unarmed young men in College Park, I've concluded that the proliferation of firearms in the American culture is a dangerous proposition.
Even in the hands of people supposedly trained in their proper use, guns still present an unnecessary danger to the American public in the hands of civilians and police alike. When will we learn?
RONALD JOHNSON, Austell
Mass killers' mental ills can be treated
I want to applaud Charles Krauthammer for his April 20 column about the political uproar arising from the Virginia Tech shootings ("Psychosis is too serious for political games," ).
People need to realize that this tragedy should not be the jump-start of some political crusade against guns, but the beginning of society's understanding of severe mental illnesses.
After Columbine, people tried to blame video games, goth culture and social elitism in high schools for the shootings, yet no one seemed to consider the notion that Eric Harris and Dylan Klebold may have had some serious mental health issues. Ultimately, I refuse to believe that mass killers are just evil people. They have illnesses that can be treated if they have the courage to seek help despite living in a society that stigmatizes mental illness so much.
KIMBERLY JOYNER, Doraville
Antidepressants stand out as culprits
What's changed in our society that could cause someone to go on a shooting rampage like that guy at Virginia Tech?
One thing stands out: antidepressants. According to the Citizens Commission for Human Rights, anxiety, agitation, panic attacks, irritability, hostility, impulsivity, severe restlessness and mania were among the FDA warnings for antidepressants. CCHR adds that many of the school shooters "were taking psychiatric drugs at the time of their crime." So, just how many people have to die before someone arrests the real killer?
RHONDA GERACI, Atlanta
Societal, childhood ills trigger actions
As I often do when another troubled soul commits some desperate act of unspeakable violence, I thought about Karl Menninger. The famous psychiatrist helped us view the age-old nature/nurture debate in a new way, illuminating society's part in producing people like Seung-Hui Cho. He once said that "Most people who are violent ... are simply acting in adult form what they learn as children."
Without question, Seung-Hui Cho bears ultimate responsibility for his actions. Yet I can't help wondering what childhood experiences could have fermented such anger and thoughtless brutality. His videos clearly demonstrate that he was suffering from some form of psychosis, yet he was virtually untreated.
We should ask how someone so disturbed could obtain handguns so easily. But in the rush to renew that debate I hope we save time to analyze the societal triggers that influence these tragedies, and the role of mental health care in helping to prevent them. I dare say Menninger would agree.
KEITH HUMMEL, Alpharetta
Abortion ruling
Women do control their own bodies
I would like to remind Maureen Downey and the editorial board that a woman does have the absolute and total ability "to control her body and her reproductive choices." Maybe women should think about "controlling their bodies" before pregnancy.
While babies are still being murdered every day, I anxiously await one more appointment to the Supreme Court that may finally overturn Roe v. Wade.
PHIL ROACH, Covington
Science endorses high court verdict
The left has come back with its usual, '70s-style responses to the Supreme Court's ruling upholding the constitutionality of a ban on partial-birth abortion. They want to keep this all on a political level and ignore the truth.
All the Supreme Court has done is keep up with the advances of science by recognizing that a "late-term fetus" is really just a baby waiting to get out. And the so-called medical reasons for this procedure are just smoke and mirrors.
How anyone can justify bringing a baby 90 percent out of the womb and then killing it before bringing the head out is beyond me.
But the liberals will justify any horror to protect their desire to do whatever they want without any moral condemnation.
Partial-birth abortion is wrong. It always will be, and the Supreme Court finally got it right.
MIKE MORRIS, Athens
Abortion opposition sexist and punitive
Why does abortion divide Americans? Unfortunately, anti-abortion groups don't realize the roots of their opposition.
It begins with a biblical view of sex as taboo. Its complement: Women who seek an abortion are more likely to engage in illicit sexual conduct. These conscious and unconscious beliefs combine, reinforced by clergy and activists who are not comfortable with sexuality.
The anti-abortion activists merge a religious view of sex with punishment of those who violate the prohibition and become pregnant.
Sexual irresponsibility is bad. But the root of opposition to "the right to privacy" -- the right to an abortion -- should be recognized for what it is: religion-based conflict with female sexuality cloaked in baby-saving rationalization and rhetoric.
Abortion opposition is partially sexist and punitive-based.
JACK REEVES, Rutledge


<ImageData>
Photo
BRANT SANDERLIN / Staff
Virginia Tech students mourn recently at a campus memorial for the 32 people who were slain in the massacre.
