BYLINE:    JAMES WYATT, ROBERT PRECHTER SR., DOLPH HONICKER, BOB BERLON, CHRIS DRAKE, GINGER M. MARINE, BRENT MUIRHEAD, JIM ABBOT, LIZ BURLINGAME, WILLIAM PARKER
For the Journal-Constitution
DATE: April 28, 2007
PUBLICATION: Atlanta Journal-Constitution, The (GA)
EDITION: Main; The Atlanta Journal-Constitution
SECTION: Editorial
PAGE: A15

God and violence: Responses to ''I don't have all the answers,'' Faith & Values, April 21
God wants us to think about choices
I was extremely disappointed with the spiritual guidance provided in John Blake's April 21 article. The religious leaders quoted and many politicians have implied that this is a time when theology and faith should "stand silent" and that this is not the time to examine the part our choices and laws may have played in the Virginia Tech shootings. I disagree. God wants us to see and learn from the consequences of all free will choices, not just ours but all those around us.
The Talmud, the Bible and the Quran were intended not just to give us the guidelines for exercising free will but to show us the consequences of choices. To ignore these lessons is to diminish the value of the lives which paid for those lessons.
As for those whose faith may be challenged by the events at Virginia Tech, it is important not to confuse the free-will choices of one individual with God's will. God should not be expected to give account for humanity's choices. Nor should we expect to have the capacity to comprehend how God will work to ensure our salvation in spite of our choices.
JAMES WYATT, Kennesaw
Imam talked about politics, not religion
AJC's Saturday's Faith and Values section covered the tragic Virginia Tech shootings with responses from various spiritual leaders, including the Jewish, Christian, Buddhist and Islamic faiths.
Most troubling was the political tone of comments from Imam Plemon El-Amin of the Atlanta Masjid of Al-Islam. His comments offered nothing on Islam's religious point of view on violence.
Instead, he politicized the discussion, by saying that violence "saturates our nation," with "a daily dose of violence" in movies, songs and violent video games, while reminding us that "we used violence to invade Iraq." But just what does the Islam religion teach and say?
What is the imam's position on the violent Islamic attacks on civilians around the world, the bloody violence of sectarian Shiite vs. Sunni, the Islamic suicide bombers and beheadings?
We are told that Islam is a religion of peace, but the Imam Plemon El-Amin did nothing to assure us of this.
ROBERT PRECHTER SR., Atlanta
Don't try to explain the unknowable
"It's a fallen world, but the message of the Gospel is that God is with us in this. God weeps with those families," so saith the Rev. David Sapp, senior pastor of Second-Ponce de Leon Baptist Church.
What a presumptuous statement! This guy has a powerful TV that monitors the face of God? How about the carnage in Iraq, Afghanistan, Sudan? Does God have tears left for them? It's such sappy pablum by those who know nothing trying to explain the unknowable that turn off nonreligious thinkers.
DOLPH HONICKER, LaGrange
God transcends our inane questions
The questioning of God during tragic events has become an exercise in futility. Every effort to dissect God's intentions always ends up with the same solution -- no answer. We say our questions are so immense that we can only depend on faith to survive our pain and disappointments.
By relying on our innate goodness and worth, we discover a great mystery. We are created in the image of creativity, yet we treat the essence of creativity as nothing more than a super form of ourselves. The God we tend to promote thinks, decides, acts and, in some temporal fashion, controls events on a second-by-second basis. Unfortunately, our faith-based education has supported and encouraged this view to the degree that we have made God the scapegoat ("How could God allow . . .?") for every irrational act perpetrated in our society.
There is no temporal God -- except for the one we attempt to create. The God of creation, the God of eternal goodness and the God of compassion transcends our morality, our politics, our religiosity, our agendas and our inane questions. Isn't it time to recognize that we live in God, not with God?
BOB BERLON, Buford
We keepers didn't help this brother
Naturally, I am appalled by the fury Cho unleashed against his classmates and teachers at Virginia Tech. My condolences go out to all involved. But I'm also appalled that religious "professionals" are at a loss to explain what happened. I read once that mental illness is a war with God and the devil fighting in the mind of the victim.
Cho was no "idiot" -- he was a college student, he rented a car, he navigated around a huge campus, he mastered technology, he mailed a package to NBC. He must have lived his short life entirely in hell, the poor crazy kid who identified with the suffering of Christ.
Why did so many people directly connected with Cho, who saw him every day for months, fail to steer him to the help he so urgently needed? We are all in this world together, and, for better or worse, we are all Cho's brothers. Readers of this letter may not understand, but I have cried for Cho, my reviled little brother who died so needlessly, taking so many precious lives with him. If we forget that we are our brothers' keepers, we do so at our peril.
CHRIS DRAKE, Atlanta
HOPE scholarship: Responses to ''Higher HOPE standards thin ranks,'' Page One, April 21
Possible failure is a good reality check
It is tragic that some parents try to make excuses for the children's poor grades. The HOPE scholarship's academic requirements are fair and offer students a clear set of expectations. The best education provides a slice of reality, which involves the possibility of failing a class. Students who take AP courses could experience a negative impact on their grade point average. Those who decide to take easy courses might earn higher grades but may not be adequately prepared for college work and fail their classes. Risk management is a normal part of daily life. Excessively protecting children is not wise parenting and hinders Georgia's efforts to encourage quality education.
BRENT MUIRHEAD, Alpharetta
Program can, must be strengthened
It was with absolute, jaw-dropping amazement that I read that, until now, failing grades were not "counted" when figuring eligibility for the HOPE scholarship if the student retook the class. Why did we ever bemoan the fact that more than 60 percent of freshmen lose the scholarship after the first year?
There are a number of ways HOPE could be strengthened. Tying in SAT/ACT scores for eligibility to keep high school grade inflation in check and having HOPE as a reimbursement after good college grades are attained are two with some merit. In other states, and in other times in Georgia, students who wanted additional education saved, took out loans and worked. Or their parents did. Those opportunities are still available today, and HOPE generously provides for students who prove themselves to gain HOPE later in their college career.
GINGER M. MARINE, Ellijay
Students need to meet high standards, not get them lowered
My eyes welled up in tears after reading the fully expected whining of Steve Miller, president of the Meadowcreek High School PTA regarding the tougher standards for HOPE scholarships. Apparently Miller has forgotten that HOPE is a merit-based benefit that encourages and rewards excellence in academic performance. Race-neutral, gender-neutral and resource-neutral, this superb program offers a chance for anyone who chooses to work hard, stay in school and meet the standards to obtain a higher education subsidized by lottery dollars.
My child studies every night, works hard and will earn his HOPE scholarship regardless of the standards. Now is the time for your students to prove they have what it takes to break the cycle of poor performance that leads to a self-fulfilling underachievement stereotype. That proof comes through meeting higher standards, not lowering them.
WILLIAM PARKER, Kennesaw
