BYLINE:    LEN CAYCE, PETER S. MORGAN JR., JO ANN S. ALEXANDER, JOE SHAULIS, W.H. POOL, VIRGINIA WILLIS , JOE BOYETT, JACK MILLER, MARTY HORTMAN, XAVIER HARRISON, DICK CLANCY, KEN THOMPSON, CHRIS JOHNSTON, DREW KELLY, SHARON BAGATELL
For the Journal-Constitution
DATE: April 29, 2007
PUBLICATION: Atlanta Journal-Constitution, The (GA)
EDITION: Main; The Atlanta Journal-Constitution
SECTION: Editorial
PAGE: B5

Virginia Tech massacre: Even slim odds support gun ownership
In Cynthia Tucker's latest screed against firearms and the Second Amendment, she asserts that since trained police officers can only hit their targets 40 percent of the time, then there is no point in responsible individuals taking ownership of their personal safety ("Pushing guns for all students a cartoonish idea," April 22). Tucker also gives the rather low number of "justifiable homicides" to bolster her argument, but fails to address the fact that oftentimes just the show of force will cause a potential mugger or burglar to think twice. These victim near-misses go unreported.
But let's assume that Tucker is right in her assertion about untrained gun owners, and that they would only be able to hit their intended target 10 percent of the time.
Most people with even a smidgen of common sense would think that even a 1 percent chance of survival is better than none, zip, zero, nada.
LEN CAYCE, Suwanee
When everyone packs heat, all get burned
Sure, the Virginia Tech attack would have played differently had everyone been packing. When everyone is armed, the consequences will be much like traffic here in Atlanta ... an accident at every intersection, some minor and some head-on collisions. (I ride public transportation and avoid the gridlock on the streets.) More guns simply mean more shootings; there is no way around that.
One need only look to the violence where everyone is armed to see the consequences. The weapons escalate to higher, more deadly, means. The resulting bombings will be the attacks for which firearms are of little defense.
PETER S. MORGAN JR., Roswell
Academic gain may be mental health's loss
The Virginia Tech massacre confirms my belief that we are reaping what we have sowed over past years. As a recently retired high school counselor, I can honestly say we are sending more students to postsecondary education with emotional issues. I have experienced serving students with serious mental health issues such as bipolar disorder and schizophrenia.
In our zeal to stress academics, we have overlooked the total development of the child by ignoring the emotional needs of the child. Let me cite a few examples of educational policies that I feel need to be addressed as direct causes of depression, anxiety, low self-esteem and violence.
• Elimination of recess
• Standardized testing with negative consequences, k-12
• Reduced funding for physical education, music, art activities
• No Pass, No Play
• Abusive use of Zero Tolerance
• No Child Left Behind
JO ANN S. ALEXANDER, Atlanta
Slavery apology: Ask Africa to say sorry for its role
The Alabama House and Senate have approved a resolution apologizing for slavery. I think it's important to discuss the source of Southern slaves and the need to expand outside of the United States to achieve the stated goals of these resolutions.
The slave trade was largely a byproduct of tribal and state warfare as a way of removing potential dissidents after victory or financing future wars. In the interest of healing and political correctness, shouldn't African-American leadership obtain formal apologies from African states and other participants in the slavery supply chain?
JOE SHAULIS, Marietta
Ask black people to say thank you
So the NAACP wants an apology for slavery. I was thinking more along the lines of the NAACP giving a letter of thanks to the people of this country.
We brought African slaves to the greatest country in the world bar none. No continent or country has done as much for the black man as has the USA. Our poor people are considered rich by Third World standards.
Our treatment of American Indians and blacks was brutal, but what they got back was unprecedented in history. Shouldn't black people say thanks for the more than 300,000 white men who died in the Civil War for their right to be free?
W.H. POOL, Fairburn
Iraq war: Killed by bombs there and by lies here
A suicide bomber wounded 20 and killed nine American soldiers on the same day that President Bush and Dick Cheney aggressively pronounced that the Democrats are exploiting the war in Iraq.
Meanwhile, across town, Kevin Tillman asserts to a House committee that facts about the death of his brother, Pat Tillman, were concealed due to politics and that his death appears to have been seen by the government as an "opportunity." Jessica Lynch tells the same House committee she was not the "little girl Rambo from the hills that went down fighting" as widely publicized.
The Bush-Cheney administration has been exploiting the war all along. There was no link to al-Qaida. There were no weapons of mass destruction in Iraq. Saddam Hussein was not a threat. Osama bin Laden is not in Iraq. We continue to learn more about deceit on the part of the administration to affect American opinion of the war.
VIRGINIA WILLIS, Atlanta
Get us out, Bush; and be quick about it
What to do about Iraq? Whether the United States retreats from Iraq tomorrow, next year, or next century won't matter because Democracy and Christianity are not acceptable to Middle East cultures, and we can still buy their oil at market prices set by global capitalism. Commander in Chief George W. Bush ordered an unjustified, preemptive invasion into Iraq and he can order an unjustified, preemptive retreat from Iraq. Enough already. Just do it!
JOE BOYETT, Montgomery
For U.S. victory, plan our withdrawal
Who will prevail in the war between the president and the Congress over Iraq? My prediction is that Congress will prevail, rightly so.
Bush claims that a timetable will allow the enemy to win. But the fact is, there is no enemy. Our troops are caught in the middle of a civil war in which we are unwelcome occupiers. Iraqis want to settle their differences without the interference of outsiders. They can take care of al-Qaida themselves, as well.
By continuing to occupy Iraq, building unwanted walls and killing civilians, we are creating enemies from those who should be our friends. A wisely planned withdrawal of combat troops is the only solution.
JACK MILLER, Atlanta
Obama and foreign policy: Responses to Thomas Friedman's column, "Obama can repair U.S. reputation across globe," April 22
Bush's negative image is media's fault
Friedman states, "I have never seen a president and a vice president more disliked in more places than George W. Bush and Dick Cheney." I ask Friedman, "Do you, the New York Times, the AJC and the majority of the American mainstream media acknowledge any responsibility in how our country, president and vice president is perceived throughout the world?"
MARTY HORTMAN, Flowery Branch
Obama rocks, so line up for a ticket
The word is that U.S. Sen. Barack Obama (D-Ill.) is a rock star. I didn't actually know what that meant until I joined thousands of people from around Georgia and other American cities at Georgia Tech. There we would experience firsthand what prompted the description.
Obama mounted the stage like a father about to tell his children things were going to be alright. Unlike many politicians, he talked to us, not at us. He covered issues that affect all of us as Americans. Homelessness, insufficient medical care to name just a few.
Is Obama a rock star? If "rock star" means a talent who knows his audience and can sing a new song and make thousands cheer and cry like teenagers at a sold-out concert, then Obama is a rock star.
My advice, make reservations now. Because you'll want to have a seat for the next big show.
XAVIER HARRISON, Atlanta
Likability isn't the issue; getting us out of Iraq is
Friedman offered the possibility that Barack Obama can repair the U.S. reputation across the globe. Possibly we made a mistake in going into Iraq, but this Bush hate started long before that time. It started when the Democrats decided to attack anything and everything President Bush and the Republicans did.
Possibly Obama is the man, but we will not know by asking if people in Kenya like him. We need to find out if Obama has any idea of how to get us out of Iraq without sacrificing our friends to the terrorists and furthering their dreams of conquest.
DICK CLANCY, Suwanee
