To the Editor:

The people of Scotland will empathize with those who are grieving in Virginia.

On March 13, 1996, at a school in Dunblane, Scotland, 16 5- and 6-year-olds and their teacher were shot dead in three minutes by a man who legally owned a small arsenal of guns.

But out of this horrific carnage there emerged an opportunity for radical positive change. I had read that in the wake of this tragedy a campaign was being coordinated to ban handguns, so I contacted the organizers to see if I could help.

A couple of days later, I met two fathers who had lost their children in the massacre, and as a result ended up providing money for the campaign, which proved to be enormously successful.

It resulted in new legislation that banned the private ownership of handguns in Britain.

Surely the horror at Virginia Tech provides the opportunity for a similarly radical change in direction in the United States.

(Sir) Peter Lampl

London, April 18, 2007

The writer is chairman of the Sutton Trust.

To the Editor:

Re “In Words and Silence, Hints of Anger and Isolation” (front page, April 18):

The tragedy at Virginia Tech and discussions of Cho Seung-Hui’s behavior as a student make it clear that, as a society, we cannot accurately identify and predict who will commit murder, nor are we able to effectively intervene in advance.

The obvious solution is strict controls on handguns so that individuals do not have the means to commit such atrocities.

This requires legislators to have the courage to stand up to the powerful pro-gun organizations, which — through a combination of propaganda, financial and political influence — made it possible for a man to simply walk into a gun store and buy a 9-millimeter handgun on the spot. Wendy M. Geringer

Croton-on-Hudson, N.Y.

April 18, 2007

?

To the Editor:

Cho Seung-Hui did not emerge in our world full grown with guns blazing. He has been with us a long time. He was a child in our school systems. He was a person in our community, in our mental health system. He was part of a family.

Instead of rushing to fight a gun lobby that will not move one inch, what about finding ways to help the young, desperate, angry, isolated and miserable among us?

That means money for early childhood education, parent education, mental health and school counselors. Ways that we can intervene in the lives of the disassociated young before it is so tragically too late.

Susan K. Finkel

Seattle, April 18, 2007

?

To the Editor:

Once again, a mentally disturbed individual has wreaked havoc on a community, and we are left wondering how we might reduce the chances of this sort of tragedy occurring again.

Continue reading the main story

RELATED COVERAGE


Gunman Showed Signs of Anger APRIL 18, 2007
Horror at Virginia Tech, Then the Hard Questions (11 Letters) APRIL 18, 2007

Opinion Op-Ed Contributor
A Black Day in the Blue Ridge APRIL 17, 2007
A psychologist friend of mine made what I think is the most creative and also the most practical suggestion I have yet heard. Why not require yearly mental health checkups of all students in high school and college? By making them routine, we would remove any stigma.

Those identified with problems could be scheduled for more frequent checkups. And the practice would encourage a sensible long-term habit.

Preventive mental health care makes as much sense as any other kind of preventive medicine. Millions go to the dentist for regular checkups. But which is more important: our state of mind or the state of our teeth? Emrys Westacott

Alfred, N.Y., April 18, 2007

?

To the Editor:

In light of the tragic events at Virginia Tech, and in the spirit of legal clarity, perhaps we should change the language of the Second Amendment to what it has effectively become.

The amendment currently states, “A well regulated militia, being necessary to the security of a free state, the right of the people to keep and bear arms shall not be infringed.”

To align with what the National Rifle Association and its political handmaidens assert, let’s change it to: “As a protected part of American culture, the right of psychopaths, criminals and violent family members to keep and bear arms shall not be infringed.”

At least that would be more honest.

Tim Zagat

New York, April 18, 2007

?

To the Editor:

Re “Horror at Virginia Tech, Then the Hard Questions” (letters, April 18):

Are there really people who believe that if there were more guns on campuses there would be fewer shootings and less violence? The logic is so perverted that if it were not so tragic it would be funny.

I wonder how many students at Virginia Tech today would like the campus rules relaxed so that more students could carry a weapon? I am guessing that the vast majority would prefer the rules to be better enforced so that no one can enter a campus building with any kind of weapon. Alison Nicholls

Port Chester, N.Y., April 18, 2007

?

To the Editor:

My sincere condolences go to the families who are in deep mourning over losing their loved ones.

When the news broke that the gunman was a 23-year-old Korean immigrant, I was in total shock. As a Korean-American, I never thought or imagined that this type of crime could be done by a Korean.

My heart is trembling with grief, and my head is still filled with pictures of devastation. I just want to reach out to the mourning families and tell them how sorry I am and that I am grieving, too.

Christine Lee

Northvale, N.J., April 18, 2007

?