The Foley scandal
More evidence new leadership needed
The Bob Woodward book "State of Denial" and the Mark Foley saga are two setbacks for Republican conservatives in the midst of their midterm election campaign.
The first deals with the Bush administration's credibility. In conjunction with the recent leak of the National Intelligence Estimate, it seems President Bush and his war cohorts are painting rosy and optimistic pictures about Iraq while being fully aware that the real situation is anything but.
About the Foley issue, we have yet to hear from leading conservative Christian Republicans who are always up in arms about moral issues. Where are you, [Focus on the Family founder] James Dobson?
These are just two obvious reasons why we need a new Congress. I urge everyone to be involved, be informed, assess the issues, then vote.
ELIGIO ABELLERA, Fairburn
Stance shows Democrats to be hypocrites
Democrats have long had big issues both ways. Case in point: U.S. Rep. Mark Foley (R-Fla.), who resigned from the House on Friday and is apparently gay, so hyped by our Dem media against the GOP.
Democrats consistently have tolerated, even promoted, the gay "lifestyle" that often leads to disease and death. Gay U.S. Rep. Barney Frank (D-Mass.) and his in-your-face antics have long been overlooked, as has the Democratic Party's trashing of the Boy Scouts' stance against homosexual members or leaders.
Now, with the Foley case, Democrats are momentarily like us sane folks -- sure that gay is bad. Which is it, you truth-challenged and consistency-challenged Dems?
BOB MORRIS, Doraville
AJC's leanings, society's immorality clear
The Atlanta Journal-Constitution's front page on Tuesday was sickening in horror and hypocrisy: Megafarmers ripping us off on subsidies ("Farmers accused of 'scheme' wind up keeping millions"); the murders at the Amish school ("Vengeful intruder binds, kills girls before taking own life"); and the disgrace of Mark Foley ("Scandal puts Republicans on defensive").
Has the AJC forgotten Democrat Bill Clinton and his sexual relationship with Monica Lewinsky?
All of the above indicate a real need for moral people to boycott most movies, television shows and businesses that glamorize killings, immorality and illegal greed. The AJC could also show a lot less hypocrisy in political reporting, on the front and editorial pages.
EVERITT HOWE, Sandy Springs
Republicans show they're out of touch
During an interview with Chris Wallace on "Fox News Sunday," former Republican Speaker of the House Newt Gingrich claimed the reason members of the GOP did not go to the House Ethics Committee with their information about Mark Foley was that they believed they would have been accused of "gay bashing."
First off, this comment reveals the cowardice of Gingrich and other conservatives in the GOP. That they would put the importance of a perceived political attack before the safety of a minor is disgusting.
Second, that they would perceive the predatory e-mails of a 52-year-old man to an underage boy as "typical" homosexual relations is simply bizarre. It demonstrates just how far out of touch many conservatives are with the gay community.
GEORGE A. KLEIN, Atlanta
Focus on values backfires on GOP
I will be opposing our incumbent for office, not merely because of the myriad public scandals that have plagued the Republican Party this year (Jack Abramoff buying favors and votes, Tom Delay's arrogant disregard for congressional ethics and campaign laws, widespread election manipulation and fraud in Ohio, Dick Cheney and Karl Rove's outing of CIA operative Valerie Plame for political revenge, the Bush administration's assault on environmental laws and its criminal mishandling of the "war on terror," Mark Foley's apparent secret life of pedophilia, etc.), but also because of the way the Republicans have used fear tactics to kidnap the soul of this great country and divide the population in the name of values.
These people who wrap themselves in the flag and call themselves "patriots" are an embarrassment to the United States and everything this country stands for. If you stand firmly behind the present administration, your values should seriously be questioned.
BRIAN WELCH, Marietta
Just a symptom of larger problem
Kids and country alike have been deceived by a president and congressman who are wolves in sheep's clothing.
"A tree can be judged by its fruit," and as Mark Foley's actions have demonstrated, one can talk and act in a manner that would suggest that one cares about the welfare of children while exploiting them.
In much the same twisted manner, President Bush talks about peace while preparing for war and perpetuating a climate of fear.
This constant barrage of negativity drives all of us to be more violent and confrontational. The only beneficiaries are politicians whose diabolical agenda of continuing uncertainty keeps getting them re-elected. So Foley is really a symptom of a much larger problem.
The Rev. GYAN CHANDRA, Atlanta
Plenty of farm subsidies to go around; South Georgia, here I come
Thank you for the series of articles on the abuse of federal farm subsidy programs. I'm enlightened but not shocked, given the climate of corporate and political greed that seems to pervade our society today.
What concerns me is that these programs, created out of Depression-era need by liberals, have evolved into expensive entitlements that today enjoy broad bipartisan support. Our own U.S. Sen. Saxby Chambliss, a Republican and chairman of the Senate Agriculture Committee, has branded himself a champion of farm subsidies, something you would expect from the likes of U.S. Sen. Ted Kennedy (D-Mass.) and his liberal cronies.
Since entitlements have a way of becoming sacrosanct, especially near election time, I don't suppose we're going to see farm subsidy reforms put into place anytime soon. So, I guess I'll move to South Georgia, buy some acreage and become a "farmer." If you can't beat 'em, why not join 'em?
STEVE BERNTHAL, Blairsville 
