Foley scandal
Left shouldn't feign shock
Spare me the drama. Let's not start playing the game of "what my guy did wasn't as bad as your guy." Mark Foley deserves to be out of Congress, and he is. He also deserves to be investigated criminally for his actions -- plain and simple. But the left needs to stop pretending to be so appalled.
The left has a history of defending wrongdoing. And the Democrats' whole "consenting adults" defense of Bill Clinton doesn't hold with me because you had a man in a position of power who had an affair with an intern. It is still an abuse of power.
Yes, Republicans stand up and scream and shout, but they also resign or force the resignation of the principal party involved. And if it is shown that House Speaker Dennis Hastert (R-Ill.) knew, then he should resign as well.
DAVID OAKLEY, Acworth
No one in Congress is above the law
OK, I'm fed up with the Mark Foley news. Democrats are gloating and Republicans are on the defense, but all this does is confirm that all members of Congress think they are in an exclusive celebrity club that is above the law.
You could ask if this is a big smoke screen to obscure what is really important in the upcoming elections -- questions such as protecting the national sovereignty of the United States, wasteful spending, the hideous tax code, confiscation of money from U.S. workers, on and on. The press is sure playing it that way.
This is just another case of total lack of leadership from any member of Congress. So before you get engrossed in this one incident, remember that each and every congressperson thinks that he or she has a lifetime job and is above the law.
COSBY SMITH, Marietta
Facts never seem to get in liberals' way
I'd like to thank a letter writer for giving me a good laugh ("Republicans did their share of squawking," Oct. 6). His comments neatly embrace liberals' tried-and-true mantra of mixing hypocrisy with the intentional misstating of facts:
1) "[Republicans] practically demanded that Clinton be run out of town on a rail when his affair with an intern came to light." FACT: Articles of Impeachment against President Bill Clinton were for lying under oath to a grand jury, not for having an affair.
2) "At least the Democrats [that Brent] Bozell mentions were all involved with people over the age of consent." FACT: Democratic Rep. Mel Reynolds was convicted of having sex with an underage female (as well as soliciting pornographic images from a 15-year-old female) and served 2 1/2 years for that. He was later convicted for lying to obtain loans and illegally diverting campaign money -- and was pardoned by Clinton. No surprise there.
PETE BONDESEN, Brookhaven
Democrats' deeds were much worse
Former U.S. Rep. Mark Foley (R-Fla.), a disgusting individual, is getting exactly what he deserved.
But with all of this broad-brushed, Republican-attacking vitriol from Democratic Party politicians and AJC letter writers, a clear distinction needs to be pointed out:
Foley sent e-mails and text messages.
President Bill Clinton had sex.
Democratic Rep. Mel Reynolds had sex.
Democratic Rep. Gerry Studds had sex.
Got it?
LEN CAYCE, Suwanee
Amish shooting: Responses to ''Amish bury their dead,'' Page One, Oct. 6
Glorify violence and society suffers
The Amish bury their dead. Young girls executed in cold blood. Local boy Aaron Kincaid is killed by a bomb in Iraq ("Soldier also 'great father, husband, son,' " Metro, Oct. 6). Thirteen U.S. soldiers died last week in Iraq. And on the Movies & More page of Oct. 6, Steve Murray, in big bold type, glorifies the film violence of Martin Scorsese's "Greatest Hits" by writing in vivid detail how various characters have hurt and maimed their victims.
On the front page, The Atlanta Journal-Constitution bemoans the violence that has infiltrated even a tiny Amish community. Yet on the movie page, violence is eye-catching and entertaining. Do you not see the connection?
LAURIE McDOWELL, Atlanta
Loving our enemies shouldn't be rare
The horrific evil of the Pennsylvania school massacre was offset by the powerful witness of a community that takes literally Jesus' command to turn the other cheek.
Sadly, the sidebar by reporter John Blake ("Hope springs from moving on without anger, survivors say," Page One, Oct. 6) offered us only universalist psychobabble about forgiveness and reconciliation without once mentioning the values that actually motivate Amish Christians. Is the AJC afraid of Christian fundamentalism even when it keeps to the byways in horses and buggies?
In truth, if loving our enemies came as naturally to most of us as it does to those who take the New Testament seriously, you would not have to put a story about it on the front page.
RON CHANDONIA, Peachtree City
Sutton's ouster shows that money rules
It's no wonder Atlanta struggles to find an image, a collective picture of the metro community that it can market to the world. Everything is run by people in suits who care only about money and not the local culture.
Don Sutton's release from the Braves' broadcasting booth is almost a criminal act ("No room for Sutton in Braves booth," Page One, Oct. 6). And then to read the watering down of the televised game schedule. Why? It does not make sense.
Oh wait, I forgot . . . money! Who cares about that? Leave the broadcasting team alone. They are one of the few fixtures that actually remain a constant in Atlanta.
Granted, no one lives forever, but why cut them down this early? Sutton is the straw that stirs the drink. To push him out truly makes me sick.
JOHN P. BAUM III, Milledgeville
Campaign flier shows Perdue is all too willing to take the low road
I just received a re-election flier from Gov. Sonny Perdue accusing his Democratic opponent, Lt. Gov. Mark Taylor, of supporting the homosexual lobby over the rights of Boy Scouts ("Perdue accused of 'smear,' " Metro, Oct. 6). A picture of Taylor on the flier made him look like a homeless drunk.
Perdue is obviously taking the low road in his re-election bid. I am not a Taylor supporter; I intended to vote for Perdue. This campaign tactic is making me rethink my choice, however. I am sick to death of candidates talking down to the electorate and trying to portrait the opposition as evil.
This flier was beneath Sonny Perdue and makes me question his judgment and ethics. Enough of the mindless politics.
DENISE GRIFFIN, Auburn
