AJC's anti-Georgia theme resounds
I finally figured out why your readers no longer have confidence in your opinion.
Sunday's sports page headline ("Dogs get put in their place," referring to Georgia's 51-33 loss to Tennessee, College Football, Oct. 8) is an indication of the way The Atlanta Journal-Constitution views Georgia. From the front page to the business page and now to the sports page, it is as if the AJC gleefully awaits lousy news about all things Georgia and pounces with their poison pens whenever bad things happen to the good people of our state.
Other cities celebrate the successes and mourn the losses of local businesses, individuals and sports teams. The AJC takes the opposite position and -- instead of boosterism -- criticizes, investigates and ridicules all things Georgia.
The AJC, not UGA, is the real loser. In its mean-spirited delight over misfortunes, it has squandered the precious First Amendment right to influence and thus be considered a trustworthy source of objectivity. No wonder more and more people are tuning you out and turning you off.
SONNY PERDUE
Perdue is governor of Georgia.
Amish shooting
Show of humanity is needed worldwide
What happened Saturday in rural Pennsylvania shows the better side of humanity ("Amish mourn schoolgirl's killer," News, Oct. 8). At the funeral of the murderer of the five innocent Amish children, dozens of Amish came to show forgiveness to the killer and concern for his wife and relatives.
The world could use more of this type of humankind than the rampant terrorism and destruction of life we see around the planet.
BILL BURNS, Stone Mountain
A lesson of grace -- at its highest power
The Amish mourn the killer. I wonder how many of us "Christians" could take a few lessons from the Amish on a thing called "grace." They seem absurdly quaint to us, but they've kept the essential kernel of our faith that most of the rest of us seem to have lost these days. I am thankful to them.
GENE BESSENT, Decatur
Cite the Election Board over voter ID letters
The Georgia Election Board sent out 300,000 letters advising incorrectly that a photo ID would be required to vote ("Despite letter, no photo ID required," News, Oct. 7). Would it be too much to ask the board to send out 300,000 correcting letters? Perhaps the court that struck down this requirement could "encourage" the board to send out corrections.
The threat of a contempt citation, if timely letters are not sent, might encourage prompt action.
HOWARD TAYLOR, Atlanta
Tipping rate keeps creeping up inexplicably
An article in the Oct. 5 Buyer's Edge about tipping correctly pointed out that "15 percent, once standard, is now pushing 20 percent" ("Who gets a gratuity? It's up for grabs").
When I was a kid 70 years ago, 10 percent was considered a respectable tip. What an old skinflint like myself would like to know is just what dynamics are causing this up-creep? (It can't be blamed on inflation; tips would rise as prices rose even if the percentages remained constant.)
Possibly softhearted folks as well as guys trying to impress their dates are giving more than the norm. Servers come to expect this higher percentage, spoiling things for everybody else.
CHARLES COHN, Austell
Nuclear test can't be blamed on Clinton
So now North Korea has tested a nuclear weapon ("North Korea: Nuke tested," Page One, Oct. 9). I would like to hear how the neocons pin this Bush failure of gross proportions on former President Bill Clinton and the Democrats. Perhaps, they'll even blame Mark Foley's e-mail victims and the widows of Sept. 11.
Not this time. Indisputably, this is on President Bush's watch. This is a genuine, egregious failure of Bush to protect us. This is a failure of the administration to focus on real, in-your-face threats to our national security. While the neocons have been busy equating the Democrats with the terrorists, North Korean leader Kim Jong-il has done what Bush couldn't. He accomplished a mission.
Thanks to Bush, we are now a nation more divided than ever. Thanks to Bush, we are now bogged down in Iraq and have less respect and fewer allies than ever.
Thanks, Mr. President, I feel a lot safer now.
TERI DICICCO, Canton
Iraq, Japan: Don't compare the battles
Charles Krauthammer's Oct. 6 column, "Iraq war must survive politics" (), negligently interprets the context of America's defeat of Japan in World War II in order to bolster President Bush's exhortations to "stay the course" in Iraq.
We do not have the moral authority to fight the Iraq war with the full force of our military might as we did against Japan. Krauthammer forgets the Japanese attacked us at Pearl Harbor, so our nation was willing to countenance the total destruction of Japan's infrastructure, hundreds of thousands of civilian casualties and the tragic atomic attacks on Nagasaki and Hiroshima.
The Iraqi army and its people did not attack us, so our military fights this war with its gloves on, so to speak, trying not to offend the American public's sensibilities with Iraqi civilian casualties. The occupation of Japan lasted from 1945 to 1952, a relatively short time frame, but the Japanese had been thoroughly defeated. The enemy fights on in Iraq.
GREG ROSS, Canton 
