We're at fault for attack on Christianity

"You're going to see God ..." were among the last words heard by the victims of the Umpqua Community College shooter in Oregon, who demanded to know if his victims were Christians.

There is an incremental criminalization of Christianity in America today, and you only have to go as far as the social media swamp to witness the most loathsome and often life-threatening tirades against professing Christians.

Over the past several months, we have witnessed a constant and ever-increasing drumbeat of vile attacks on anyone who embraces Christianity. If you are a Christian and support traditional marriage and family, you are branded an intolerant, narrow-minded hater and homophobe. If you support legal immigration, you are branded as bigoted and xenophobic.

This growing national climate of extreme hostility toward Christianity -- from politicians, professional news media and popular social media -- has created open season on committed followers of Jesus Christ.

We have taken God out of our schools and replaced him with the religion of humanism. We teach human life is just one big cosmic accident. We are telling our youth abortion is just another component of women's health.

President Obama and his leftist minions always blame inanimate pieces of metal, when the root cause of these slaughters is in our own mirrors.

Richard Pluth Casselberry

Obama should be more specific on guns

Within hours of the tragic shooting in Oregon, the president called a news conference to demand more measures to control the legal purchase of firearms, while ignoring the use of firearms by the criminal element. He did not say what measures or how they would prevent mass shootings.

The number of deaths in a mass shooting are minuscule compared to the number of deaths by criminals using illegally obtained firearms. I think he and Democrats would find more support for additional gun-control measures if they made an effort to disarm the criminal element first.

Their attempts to disarm legal purchases of firearms, while ignoring the real problem of criminals' use of firearms, only breeds suspicion of their motives.

Kenneth Paul Longwood