To the Editor:

Re ''Littleton, Then and Now'' (Op-Ed, April 22): While the ''mallification'' of America is appalling, I wouldn't go as far as to say that too many Big Macs and blue jeans are reasons enough for our children to kill. The sense of place and character that Stephen Schiff speaks of is certainly lacking. However, where it is most sorely missed is in the home.

Too often children come home to an empty house. This lack of supervision translates into a lack of respect for authority, which stretches into early adulthood and beyond. We have to stop blaming Junior's behavior solely on the evils lurking on television, on the Internet and in our shopping plazas and start spending time with -- not just money on -- our children.

MARK SPOONAUER

Weehawken, N.J., April 22, 1999

To the Editor:

Following Gary L. Bauer's announcement of his candidacy for the Republican Presidential nomination, he was asked if his opposition to stringent gun control had changed in the wake of the school massacre in Littleton, Colo. He answered that the availability of weapons is not the problem; rather, it is the hearts of the people who use them (news article, April 22).

Perhaps we can also expect Mr. Bauer to support the legalization of drugs? After all, why should we criminalize the sale of any dangerous product when the real problems stem from people's hearts, not availability?

JUNE DUTTON

Sausalito, Calif., April 22, 1999

To the Editor:

I bridle at Stephen Schiff's buck-passing article (Op-Ed, April 22). As a screenwriter he suggests that Hollywood's marketing of violence is not to blame when viewers choose to re-enact scenes of carnage in their own backyards. Rather, he contends that the main culprit in this week's murderous rampage may be a bad case of anonymity; the murderous Littleton teen-agers, he says, had no sense of purpose living in a consumer-driven suburb.

Yet there is no one reason that tragedies like this occur. It's undeniable that destructive children can easily get their hands on rapid-fire guns that make it easy to enact their fantasies. And it's also clear that Hollywood feeds these fantasies and normalizes the sight of blood and guts. We can only hope that this latest spate of blood-letting will sicken us to the extent that we will no longer pay to see violence in movie theaters.

CINDY HANDLER

Upper Montclair, N.J., April 22, 1999

To the Editor:

The report that one of the shooters at Columbine High School mentioned that a victim had previously made fun of him is a telling clue (front page, April 21). In a society where television shows like ''Friends'' and ''Seinfeld'' teach us to single out and ridicule those with unusual physical or personality traits -- big hands, odd accents, strange clothes -- it is no wonder that teens-agers have picked up the misguided lesson that ''normal'' is good and ''unusual'' must be criticized.

This attitude has a chain-reaction effect, because children who are made to feel like social outcasts during formative years can bear resentment, frustration and a desire to do something about it.

JASON P. LISI

Philadelphia, April 22, 1999

To the Editor:

Re ''Gun Spree at Columbine High'' (editorial, April 21): I agree that ''schools must become more adept at spotting potential troublemakers'' in order to insure a relatively safe environment for other children. However, more of the responsibility needs to be placed on the parents, guardians and caretakers to recognize these children.

Schools can provide only so much protection. I graduated from high school two years ago. My school was aware of an obvious gang problem, and officials did what they could about it. They had police on campus, scanned for weapons and increased campus security. No school with thousands of students can pay attention to every individual who dresses or acts differently from the mainstream.

If a child is wearing a Nazi logo, creating World Wide Web sites with instructions for buying guns and building bombs in the home, who is more adept at spotting such a potential troublemaker than his parents?

STEFANIE AALBERTS

Tacoma, Wash., April 22, 1999

To the Editor:

Re ''Addicted to Violence'' (column, April 22), by Bob Herbert:

As a French citizen who much prefers life in the United States, I do not believe that American teen-agers have bigger societal problems than their French counterparts.

What American teen-agers do have that French teen-agers do not are readily available weapons. It is this availability, and not some foggy societal disease like violence addiction, that is the cause for high school massacres. Otherwise, wouldn't there be similar tragedies in France?

CHRISTINE VALLE

Atlanta, April 22, 1999

To the Editor:

I disagree with Bob Herbert's assertion that Americans are addicted to violence and are able to take this violence in stride with the rest of the atrocities on the evening news (column, April 22). People are paying attention to the shooting at the Littleton, Colo., high school precisely because it is out of the ordinary, because we don't know how to understand it.

These teen-agers were troubled and angry, and we have to stop placing blame and instead ask why. What is it about American high schools that drives troubled children to act out in such a manner?

Children should not be killing other children. When it does happen, it is a signal that something else is severely wrong.

MIRIAM PARKER

New York, April 22, 1999

To the Editor:

We could avoid being shocked by school shootings like the one in Colorado (front page, April 22) because they can, in fact, be prevented. In my community, we held a conference last fall with a psychologist who specializes in children in crisis, the schools superintendent and the police chief. Without wasting time pontificating on the causes of aberrant behavior, we addressed the symptoms of adolescent anger, how they can be identified and what can be done.

The responsibility to act lies with classmates who think it is not cool to report aberrant behavior, with parents who deny adverse observations by the schools, with schools that are too cautious about angering parents and with the community that hides from the fact that there are alienated children who must be treated before they act out.

BRUCE W. MARCUS

Easton, Conn., April 22, 1999

To the Editor:

The words ''troubled'' and ''disaffected'' are heard often in the discussion of the Columbine High School shooting (front page, April 22). We must ask what causes this ''disaffection'' and in what situations a struggling child is ignored.

Take class size. If schools were open year round with staggered schedules, classes would be smaller and every child could count on individual attention from the teacher.

We could start teaching listening skills early, so children could grow up knowing what it means to speak and be heard -- regardless of their home situation. How would it affect teen-agers, and the adults they become, if they met daily in groups of four or five and could talk about anything and never be put down or humiliated?

JOY SHAYNE LAUGHTER

Seattle, April 22, 1999

To the Editor:

School violence, like the Colorado shooting (front page, April 22), is best answered not with punishment alone but with carrots and sticks.

Five out of six American secondary schools enroll 2,500 or more students, yet research consistently points to 600 to 800 as optimal. Because each school has but one football team, choir and Spanish club, the number of slots by which students may feel connected to the school is limited.

In a school of 700, most students have an avenue for bonding and fitting in. In a school of 1,800, a large number of students will fail to find a slot, feel marginalized and be labeled ''outcasts'' and ''misfits,'' the terms Columbine High School students applied to those in the ''trench coat mafia.''

ARNOLD P. GOLDSTEIN

Syracuse, April 22, 1999
