To the Editor:

Your April 23 front-page article on the post-Columbine gun-control debate quotes Joe Sudbay of Handgun Control Inc. as saying, ''What we are seeing out of this tragedy is that legislators are listening to their constituents and not the N.R.A.'' But the National Rifle Association's three million members are constituents, and the N.R.A. is doing more than any other group to prevent these disasters by, for example, training people in the responsible use of firearms.

Opponents of gun rights are adopting their usual tactics: assigning the blame to guns and anyone who owns them. This is simpler and more palatable than examining why a society is capable of producing such twisted minds. It also transfers blame to law-abiding gun owners and justifies even greater regulation of our personal freedoms.

JOHN MORGAN

Ann Arbor, Mich., April 27, 1999

To the Editor:

Thomas L. Friedman, in his April 27 column on the Columbine High School shootings, says the Internet can be both ''an incredible knowledge tool and an incredible microphone for hate,'' but he refuses to acknowledge any purpose for assault weapons other than to ''kill other human beings.''

In fact, assault weapons can stop or deter the killing of innocent people when used with the same ''personal judgment and responsibility'' that Mr. Friedman acknowledges are ''critical'' when surfing the Web. A total ban on weapons is no more justified than a total ban on objectionable Web sites.

MAURICE JAY BAUMGARTEN

Miami Beach, Fla., April 27, 1999

To the Editor:

James Q. Wilson's analysis of the tragedy in Littleton, Colo. (Op-Ed, April 26), makes clear a need for parent accountability and for schools to give emphasis to personal development. However, he fails to mention what is most needed: schools small enough for teachers and administrators to see their students as more than names on a class list.

Large class size, limited instructional time slots, and schools like Columbine High School with 1,800 or more pupils contribute to a situation in which students remain forever anonymous. We need schools where teachers know their students as individuals, where a sense of community develops and where caring and compassion are the norm.

SIDNEY TRUBOWITZ

New York, April 27, 1999
