Who's to blame, the front page of Tuesday's Sentinel seems to scream. I will tell you who is to blame.

The Virginia Tech Police Department identified the shooter as Cho Seung-Hui, 23, a senior in the English department. Cho Seung-Hui is the sole person to blame, not the school administrators, Virginia Tech police, the Second Amendment or the maker of the guns used.

Alan Kornman

Oviedo

This time Virginia Tech suffers the tragedy of murder and mayhem. What a shock to civilized people when a tragedy of this dimension occurs in the most peaceful of places. But sadly it was unpreventable because one person decided to act on his murderous emotions.

But the immensity of his crime could have been mediated if the alarm that a "shooter" was on campus could have been sounded. Then many could have sought safety. If anything comes out of this it will be the need for those in charge to sound the alarm and warn others in settings like schools and businesses where so many wander freely.

It is also a wake-up call for those who need to use their constitutional right to arm themselves for reasons of self-defense and to defend others in situations like that at Virginia Tech. This modern age is full of more threats than our constitutional framers ever could have imagined. But they were clear on the need to be able to defend ourselves and others.

We don't need more gun laws. We need to enforce the good ones we already have. We need to prepare ourselves for the lawful use of weapons to protect our lives from those who are murderously out of control and who would threaten us. Until all subscribe to a peaceful way of being, it's smart to know how to defend your right to be free from violence and make it known to would-be perpetrators.

Bill Archer

Daytona Beach

In light of yet another massacre, America has a much greater problem than three words taken from a radio/TV personality's schtick to be concerned about.

Sometimes it takes a wake-up call to put things in perspective.

Fay Harger

Maitland

What a circus view of the world the Orlando Sentinel provided on Tuesday. I was still numb from horrific events that took place at my alma mater, Virginia Tech. Now I see that the world has gone mad.

First is the stampede of blame, vilifying the police who responded to this unimaginable tragedy. A lockdown over a shooting? Why not apply that to everyday life: If you are within a mile of a shooting, work or home, day or night, officials force you into the streets into blind rout. Do you really think that solves anything?

Second is the ghoulish "more guns" response from Jack Chambless. Did Chambless wait until the bodies were cool before turning the tragedy into another NRA advertisement? Or was he typing his piece while following the "score" on the radio?

How aptly placed his article was, right above another commentary on rampant alcohol abuse on campus. Visualize a fraternity house jammed with drunken, partying students. Now put guns in every nightstand. A capital idea, indeed.

The world has gone mad.

Robert Raymond

Orlando

Without even reading the article, the headline from Tuesday's paper is upsetting. What about focusing on what happened, the tragedy and the victims?! We should be so completely saddened by this event and be giving immediate energy to learning the details, remembering the victims, their families and Virginia Tech.

Instead, the media choose to focus on pointing fingers. "Why Wasn't He Stopped?" the headline reads. Once the authorities have worked through the scene and events, then it may be time to ask questions regarding what could have been done differently, was there some neglect, how do we learn from this?

But not yet. Let us learn what happened and grieve.

Debbie Johnson

Winter Park

I am always amazed when we are collectively stunned that someone could violate our current social norms and kill a lot of innocent people. This seems to be especially troubling when the killers are young.

Such acts do not surprise me. In the '60s, the hippies were allowed to flout our laws and our social mores in a gush of self-pleasures at the expense of well-founded cultural traditions. This unabashed attack on the culture that had produced the most successful nation in history was allowed to win out over proven behavior norms.

Since that time, these errant rebels have become parents, and now grandparents. Their children, and now grandchildren, have not only continued their cause to overthrow the basics of our country's culture, but also to infect our society with a new illness. That illness is known as political correctness. Events such as the one that occurred Monday at Virginia Tech should not surprise anyone who has witnessed the liberals' planned degradation of the culture that produced a great nation.

We can return the clock to better times if we would give teachers the tools needed to control classes of third-generation hippies. Even a well-known liberal understands that it takes more than two parents to shape a child. In her words, "it takes a village." Just give the members of our village the ability to discipline the young ones. It was that way before all this.

Larry McFadin

Winter Springs

In his Tuesday "My Word" column calling for more guns, Jack Chambless laments the call for gun control that usually follows tragic shootings such as what just occurred at Virginia Tech. I am equally irritated by people who misconstrue the meaning of the Second Amendment of the Constitution.

Our Founding Fathers included the right to bear arms as a way to protect the citizens from a tyrannical monarchy such as the one we had just escaped from in England. They had no possible way to conceive of the ferocity of today's weapons, or the ability of a single person to inflict such carnage.

The bottom line is that no number of gun-toting economics professors is going to stop a madman bent on murder and suicide. More guns on the street are not the answer.

Arthur Smith

Minneola

As the stories of the terrible events at Virginia Tech overwhelm us, we reach for the appropriate questions and their answers.

As to the questions: "Who?" and "Why?" come readily to mind. Then we look forward and ask, "How can we prevent this from happening again?" For this, there is an answer.

It's time that we arm our educational institutions, including (and especially) our public schools with surveillance-camera systems. If the systems are equipped with a sound-analysis component, a monitoring station could provide an alert whenever certain sounds or decibel levels are detected.

We have the technology to protect lives now. Let's get started.

James M. Graber

Apopka

Regarding Tuesday's front-page headline "Why Wasn't He Stopped?": He wasn't stopped because a year ago the Virginia legislature, in a paroxysm of feel-good political correctness, passed a law making all of its state universities "gun-free" zones.

As a result, the 26,370 students at Virginia Tech were sitting ducks without any means of defending themselves or one another.

George Daniels

Windermere