As a retired police lieutenant and former campus police chief, I was totally revolted by the headlines of the April 17 edition, "Where was security?" and in huge block letters "WHY WASN'T HE STOPPED?"

"Where was security?" Virginia Tech has a total of 40 police officers, spread over three shifts, meaning that each shift likely has only eight to 10 officers on duty at any given time, covering a campus of 2,600 acres with 26,370 students. Undoubtedly, most of those officers on duty were deeply occupied investigating the first double homicide at the dormitory when the second shooting occurred.

"Why wasn't he stopped?" In order for that to happen, the officers would have needed to know exactly who "he" was! Should they have stopped every single person found traversing the campus, illegally searching them for possible weapons? The two handguns used by the killer could very easily be concealed; it is highly unlikely that he crossed the campus openly brandishing them. Did the officers perhaps forget to bring their crystal balls so they could know without any doubt who the killer was and that he was going to strike again?

The Sentinel has not resorted to such irresponsible headlines when addressing the record number of murders in Orlando and Orange County last year, a trend that is continuing this year. Doing so in this horribly tragic case displays a total lack of understanding of the fact that law enforcement operates under enormous legal restrictions, and it cannot be everywhere at all times.

You have done a grave disservice to law enforcement everywhere.

Edmund Bossle

St. Cloud

I've begun to think that my generation has seen it all.

When I was in middle school, the lesson of the Columbine massacre was that we were no longer safe in our schools. When I was in high school, the lesson of Sept. 11 was that we were no longer safe in our homeland. The start of our college careers saw wars in Afghanistan and Iraq. Now, in my senior year of college, the lesson of what happened on the campus at Virginia Tech is that we are no longer safe in our dorms or lecture halls.

At my small, Christian college nestled in the mountains of Western Pennsylvania, we often talk of "the bubble" that separates our campus from the real world. Through the hectic schedule of classes, athletic practices and weekend parties, many college students find little time to keep up with world events. While we might have friends who have served in Afghanistan or Iraq, those places are still far away from our own personal bubbles of college classes and sporting events.

The poor voting records of college-age adults in the United States merely prove the point that even on a national level, the average college student is concerned more about his or her term papers than who might be president in 2008.

I now consider that bubble burst.

While Virginia Tech's campus is several hours away from my own, the immediacy of what happened strikes a chord with every college student in this nation. For so many of us, the four (or five, or six) years of college are supposed to be some of the best times of our lives. From Saturday afternoons at the football games to March Madness, college is always about fun. For every student at Virginia Tech, the college experience now has new meaning. Even though Virginia Tech boasts a student body of around 26,000, you can bet that most everyone at that school will know someone who was killed or wounded on Monday either personally or indirectly.

It is still far too close to the actual event to postulate what the ramifications of such an enormous massacre will mean for our nation's collegiate institutions, let alone our nation as a whole. But we can be sure of one thing:

This generation, though still young, has experienced evil firsthand.

Whether in the form of high-school outcasts in Columbine, Islamic terrorists in the form of Osama bin Laden, the sight of an Amish schoolhouse riddled with bullets or the pain of hearing that fellow college students died in their classroom on a Monday morning, this generation knows loss and what the evil of hate can do in this world.

The questions I now ask myself as I approach my graduation next month are these:

Is my generation ready to take charge of our world and change it for the better? Is that even possible?

Credit: Jeb Beates, Special to the Sentinel