Regarding the April 17 "My Word" piece by Jack A. Chambless, "More guns, not fewer, would have saved lives":

Chambless' contention that having students armed at Virginia Tech would have saved lives is irresponsible. His uncritical reference to a dated 10-year-old study compiled at the University of Chicago is faulty scholarship and his assertion that advocates of gun control are ignorant is insulting.

According to the 2007 Small Arms Survey published by the Oxford University Press, the U.S. has 90 weapons per each 100 civilians -- the highest weapons possession in the world. This is three times the rate of weapons possessed by Canadian civilians. Nonetheless, murders per capita in Canada are only one-third those of the U.S. Clearly, we must do something constructive to curb violence in our country, but more guns is not the answer.

For the Orlando Sentinel to have legitimized Chambless' viewpoint by publishing it as other than a letter to the editor also is irresponsible. In light of the great tragedy at Virginia Tech, it even may have been indecent.

Joseph M. Rougeau

Deland

Outside of Virginia, Virginia Tech was rarely known for more than football. Despite being a campus of 26,000 and 10,000 employees, it is a tight-knit community where a sense of honor prevails. Monday, Blacksburg became known for one more thing, for which I grieve.

Please know that Virginia Tech is an amazing institution where many discoveries have been made that impact the world. It's students come from all parts of the country and major in just about everything. The campus is beautiful, and one can get lost in the green spaces while walking to class.

When time has passed, and a sense of normalcy has returned, I hope everyone discovers Virginia Tech for being one more thing: a caring, first-class institution.

Joshua Folb

Virginia Tech Class of 2000

Kissimmee

As a senior at UCF, I was absolutely horrified by the tragic events that took place at Virginia Tech University. I realize you could never entirely secure a college campus, but I think that schools should utilize the one tool that practically all of us students have with us at all times: our cell phones.

I think every school should create a database of cell-phone numbers that would enable law enforcement to send out mass text messages that would warn students if there was a lockdown on campus. Most students don't hesitate to check their text messages, even if they are in class when they receive them.

Many view cell phones as an annoyance, but no one would deny what an important role these devices played on 9-11. It may not be a flawless system, but at least students would have a better chance of being informed of imminent danger.

My heart goes out to the friends and families of those who lives were taken on Monday.

Ashley Galloway

Winter Springs

For many college students, life consists of Greek organizations, clubs, new friends and experiences, and the promise of a successful future. However, for others it consists of loneliness and resentment. Cho Seung-Hui, identified as the gunman in the Virginia Tech tragedy, was a member of this second group.

According to those few who knew him, he was quiet and never fit in. A note left at his dorm shows that he also was very angry.

Despite his impending graduation and future prospects, on Monday he chose to act out on his anger. That day there were 32 people killed, and Cho Seung-Hui will now forever be remembered for those deaths.

This and other similar situations are evidence of a failure in college. Despite all of a campus' wonderful qualities, students often get lost in the crowd. Perhaps this is because of underdeveloped social skills or the stress the school places on the young people. The tragedy on Monday shows that these feelings of despair can make people do horrible things to themselves and others. It is the responsibility of those able to put aside elitist attitudes and personal stresses and help others avoid becoming lost in the crowd. This could be as simple as opening the door for somebody with a smile or recruiting students into a school club.

Perhaps if somebody had committed a random act of kindness for Cho Seung-Hui on Sunday, he and 32 others would still be attending classes, awaiting graduation and anticipating the weekend.

Credit: Andrew Lanius

The tragedy at Virginia Tech brought high schools to mind: the shootings at Columbine in Colorado, Red Lake High in Minnesota and Santana High in California. These earlier killings were perpetrated by students toward students. Surely, there must be some connecting factor, something that all these madmen had to endure.

Day after day, students are overloaded with homework and projects that will leave them with no other option than an all-nighter, denying themselves the sleep that they need to mature. If that is not enough, there are myriad social pressures.

So, what am I saying? These high-school shootings were inevitable. When adolescent life is already such a pressure cooker, adding more work on our heads is bound to result in something catastrophic. Actually, what I'm more concerned about, as a high-school student, is what will happen next. These separated instances of student-toward-student violence are just valves releasing steam. Imagine the terror of a full-on explosion.

The next item on the agenda, then, is to figure out how to put out this fuse. The answer is simple: less pressure.

Now, I understand that the purpose of high school is to prepare a student for the "real world." However, the growing adolescent mind, from what I have observed, often cannot take the stresses of the adult world. We might seem like adults, we might even try to act like adults, but the plain truth is that our brains are still maturing. All of this stress is detrimental to the growing teenage mind.

Recently, I have had the good fortune of leading a FIRST -- For Inspiration and Recognition of Science and Technology -- robotics team. The FIRST program advocates the notion of "gracious professionalism," which teaches participants to compete while still showing respect and kindness toward other teams. The regional competition at the University of Central Florida was the closest thing to a utopia that I can imagine. In this environment, "outsiders" became "insiders." Teams were selflessly cheering each other on, with no malicious undertones of what the terms "winner" and "loser" might be. I have never been an athlete, but I am now able to imagine the atmosphere a player in the Final Four might experience.

Since I've been fortunate enough to be in a private school for my entire educational career, this utopia brought a new and welcome worldview to me, in which every person's effort is appreciated and applauded, as it should be.

It is with this spirit that I have begun a quest to start a revolution of sorts. I propose to call the venture "Students Against Violence Everywhere" -- S.A.V.E. -- and my rallying cry is "Join the Evolution," as this society has done enough revolving. Let us move forward and evolve. S.A.V.E. would be a movement dedicated to the peaceful protest of the idea that everybody should be perfect 24/7. After all, we are only human, and it is the differences between us that should be celebrated.

So will this fly in today's America? Teachers, parents, administrators, and especially students, ask yourself these questions: If not me, who? If not now, when?

Credit: Megan Postava