In response to the tragic events that occurred at Virginia Tech, Valencia Community College economics Professor Jack A. Chambless vigorously endorses "our rights" and the notion that "parents who care" pursue gun training and safety courses, and presumably purchase a weapon.

One would hope that those Valencia economics students expecting lectures on GNP and marginalism are not often victims of such narrow, careless opinions. I believe that most caring parents are shocked, that they are grieving and praying for these many families, and hopeful for those who have survived.

Less than 24 hours after this tragedy, Chambless' reckless endorsement of more guns is callous and absurd. His sentiment that having more guns present on campus would have "increased the probability of lives being saved," demonstrates to me that the professor would benefit from a course in logic and probabilities, as applied to college living.

The image of firearms stashed in frat houses and dorm rooms, of concealed weapons kept in coeds' purses and shoulder holsters, is not the environment most students and parents have in mind when pursuing a college education at Virginia Tech, or even Valencia Community College, for example.

I cannot imagine any of the victims or families at Virginia Tech, nor any of us caring parents, having the sentiment that "I need to get my child a gun for school."

Jack Shenton

Maitland

Almost before the sounds of the gunshots from the horrible mass murder at Virginia Tech faded, the clarion call for "gun control" is again ringing loud and clear. Sadly, many will listen.

I have even seen opinions on the pages of the Sentinel that extol the virtues of relieving Americans of the most valuable right we have: the right to defend ourselves and loved ones. We cannot depend on the authorities, as last week's rampage clearly shows, to defend us from evil.

If a student or professor, carrying a legally owned firearm had had the opportunity to confront this madman, 30 people might still be alive. None of these victims -- and I do not use the word "victim" lightly, as the media is fond of doing -- had a chance to defend his or her own life.

The government owes citizens the ability to defend themselves. Sadly, it may have taken an act as vile as any in recent American history to allow people to recognize the need. I pray for the people who suffered loss last Monday, and I pray for our nation.

John Schofield

Orange City

Normally, I am proud to use the Sentinel as a model of an exemplary newspaper to my high-school journalism students. However, I have been saddened, disappointed and angry at the Sentinel's choices in front-page presentation since the tragedy at Virginia Tech.

I found Wednesday's decision to run a large picture of the killer in his video, along with his words boldly printed in black and red, to be cheap and sensational. Not only was I offended by the Sentinel's attempt to shock me -- as if the events weren't horrific enough -- but by giving the killer such predominant placement and in such a manipulative way, you have given him exactly what he wanted. He was literally the center of attention.

Our time, and your space, would be better served focusing on the victims and heroes of this event, rather than rewarding the one who took innocent lives.

Megan Pankiewicz

Orlando