The pundits and anti-gun crowd are missing a key point in the Virginia Tech tragedy: An evil, deranged man killed people. Neither a culture of violence nor lack of gun control nor any other politically correct reason killed them.

Seung-Hui Cho was determined to take as many lives as he could. He, and he alone, was responsible. This murderer put the blame for what he was doing on others. The press and pundits are doing the same thing: "It was the culture; it was the gun laws." If the reasons for the killings were these things, then there would be mass killings every day.

What keeps a society from total degeneracy is knowing that you are responsible for what you do and will be held to account. Absolving an evil person from his act by blaming everything else and engaging in collective guilt is to invite more mayhem.

Richard E. Morrison

Orlando

In the aftermath of the Virginia Tech tragedy, I am hoping to aid healing by providing a glimpse into the collective Korean psyche. Since I was born in the U.S. to Korean immigrants, I think I can speak credibly for the majority of us.

We, of course, feel tremendous sorrow for those who were lost and their families. But in addition, we feel great shame because the perpetrator of this heinous act was of Korean heritage. From a young age, we are inculcated with the notion that our actions -- good or bad -- reflect not only upon us as individuals, but also upon our families and communities. We are taught that we are part of a greater whole and that we have an obligation not to defame this whole that is our culture. With that said, it is clear from the shooter's multimedia manifesto that profound mental illness and psychotic paranoia usurped all such philosophies.

I have been encouraged by the response of the Korean community both here and abroad. Media images showing candlelight vigils in Seoul, the capital of Korea, are particularly moving. Official statements from Korean leaders reflect the sentiment I am striving to characterize. As reported by CNN, the shooter's own great-aunt alluded to him as "the idiot" with respect to his crimes.

Although his parents have been notably absent from the media, it seems understandable when one considers how much they must be suffering from the loss of their son and the eternal shame of his legacy. They came to the United States to make a better life for themselves and contribute to American society. Indeed, they worked in the dry-cleaning business and sent a daughter to Princeton University.

Now, much of their hard work has been tainted. My prayers go out to them, as well.

Theodore Lee, M.D.

Associate Director, Internal Medicine

Florida Hospital East Orlando

Family Practice Residency Program