It is interesting to me that, within a couple of weeks after the horrific massacre at Virginia Tech, news associated with the event is relegated to the back pages of Section A. In another week, the story will be all but buried, save annual remembrances on the anniversary date, or comparisons to the event when similar acts occur -- and given the gun culture in our country, you can be sure that they will.

The loss of life in this country by gunfire is astounding when compared with the rest of the "civilized" world. Are 30,000-plus lives lost each year an amount simply to be dismissed? The Second Amendment of the Constitution was written at a time when life was much different in this country. Much has changed in our society in these past 200 years; our laws should change accordingly.

Alas, the strength of the NRA and the gun-rights lobbies suggest that no change will occur any time soon. I am not suggesting that the gun manufacturers be put out of business. Let them retool their assembly lines and produce weapons for the military. Our bottomless pit of a defense budget should help keep them all in business. Heaven forbid we lose jobs because of such action.

I admit there are no easy answers to the problem. But it certainly seems to me that if the recent events at Virginia Tech are not a catalyst for change, then nothing will ever happen to make our society safer.

Jeffrey York

Winter park

When I went to grammar school we had safety patrols. They had badges and authority to enforce the rules. They were selected because they had earned the respect of the teachers and showed leadership skills. Is it unreasonable to award 22-year-old men and women who have demonstrated the desire and ability to protect themselves and others the opportunity to do so?

Is it unreasonable for a criminal-justice major, who will be issued a gun in a few months as a parole officer, to openly carry a weapon on campus? We have kids in very dangerous places all over the world with weapons. They were all safer than any of the kids at Virginia Tech last week.

Tom Evers

New Smyrna Beach