Like many, I cried Friday when I learned about the unimaginable sadness that another community must endure, but I am sure the framers of the Second Amendment did not foresee Americans owning semiautomatic handguns and assault rifles. The wide availability of guns designed to indiscriminately kill in great numbers and the availability of unregulated ammunition do, in fact, kill people, and 6- and 7-year-olds, too. Nothing changed after shootings at Columbine (Colo.) High School, Virginia Tech or Aurora, Colo., and the reality is that no one on the political spectrum has the courage to speak out about the madness of unleashed guns and what they do to American life. That includes the president, Mitt Romney and Congress. We have heard the rhetoric, but meaningful dialogue isn't enough. We need strong leadership and immediate action, or we need to steel our hearts to periodic homicidal mayhem, because as much as we try to predict human behavior, it will never be an exact science. Guns can be controlled; people can't. My heart breaks for the people of Newtown, Conn. I am sorry for their loss. I hope we don't have to grieve for another community any time soon, but that might be too big a Christmas wish.
I believe my rights under the Second Amendment provide me with the right and responsibility to defend my home, my wife and my family against invaders or other dangers. I am a Christian, a National Rifle Association member and a Democrat. My family comes first after God. What happened at Sandy Hook Elementary School was terrible and watching it on TV made me cry. That precious children were killed was unbelievable. Gun laws are not the answer. People still find ways to assault others, as seen in two recent incidents in China, which has strict gun-control laws: On Thursday, a man was arrested after slashing young women on the subway with a box cutter, and on Friday, a man used a knife to hurt 22 children and an 85-year-old woman outside an elementary school. I do not know what the answer is. Some have mentioned more armed guards at schools. Will that help? Who knows? I know a pastor who carries a concealed weapon. I support that.
