The National Rifle Association is having a press conference Friday. That means get ready for the usual NRA claptrap about the feds taking away our Second Amendment rights. Nobody wants to stop gun owners from their legitimate pursuits. And strict regulation of guns won't do that. The NRA has pushed our spineless politicians into making these "stand your ground" and concealed-carry laws in Florida that don't make us safer, but result in unarmed citizens being shot. The NRA doesn't just represent gun owners. Its leaders have an agenda to maintain power and profits for themselves and the gun manufacturers. Their civil-rights rhetoric is part of their marketing strategy. Adam Lanza's mother had guns and was probably a good shot. We know how that turned out.
Like millions of others, upon learning of the Sandy Hook Elementary School shootings, I immediately thought of my own, now grown, healthy and safe children and grandchildren. I also thought of my friend who is a first-grade teacher. She came to teaching in her middle age and I believe it to be her calling. She loves and cares about her students and visits each one's home to get a better understanding of who they are and their individual circumstances. She is a caring and thoughtful presence in their lives. However, she is not a trained, armed guard; neither should she be. A Bushmaster rifle changed my life forever, as my retail store was the target of the Washington, D.C., snipers in 2002, but it was not changed nearly as much as the lives of the families of the 20 small victims of a deranged young man with a similar rifle. As the call for an assault-weapons ban grows louder, there are those who will yell Second Amendment. But what about the God-given right to life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness? Those tiny victims knew nothing of the Second Amendment, yet inherently understood the right to life. Without life, there can be no liberty or pursuit of happiness. When your right to bear arms infringes on a child's right to life, it is the Second Amendment that needs to change.
Tragedies like we see happening in shopping malls, college campuses, high schools and now elementary schools didn't happen in this country 60 years ago. Why? What has changed? Seventy years ago, this country rose up with a mighty resolve and at great cost in lives and material to destroy two cultures that placed no value on human life beyond their own. It was all right to kill the weak and despised by any means. That was not so in this country. Has that changed? Wholesale portraying and glamorizing of violence in the entertainment industry was not the norm. Has that changed? Prayer and religious activity were common in public schools. Has that changed? Unborn human life was protected by law. Has that changed? Is what we see happening now the mask of a different culture being removed in this country? To be sure, many things have changed. Is it for the better?
I am nonplused by the reaction of some of the readers of Saturday's Sentinel to the Newtown shootings. There were no comments about the possibility that the shooter had been exposed to the violent video games I see advertised every day on TV. These games extol the pleasure of killing, and the American Civil Liberties Union sues to uphold the First Amendment rights of the makers without giving a thought to the consequences of polluting the minds of possibly unstable individuals viewing them. But the rights of legitimate gun owners will take the hit for these latest atrocities. I find it interesting that the last several perpetrators of these crimes have been young men in their early 20s who have probably been exposed to this rubbish for several years, and I hope the investigation will look at the profiles of all those involved. Then maybe the president and the legislators will hit the right target in trying to bring these kinds of tragedies under control.
Once again, America has had another school mass shooting. This was no different than any terrorist attack. Israel used to have a problem with PLO terrorists shooting up its schools, until Israel allowed armed security guards. It's long past the time to try something different; allowing school employees who have carry permits to be lawfully armed at school. At least then a teacher might be able to defend the children instead of helplessly watching them get shot by some terrorist. It works for Israel. Mass murderers and terrorists avoid places that are not gun-free zones. Gun-free zones are getting our people killed.
