What happened on the Virginia Tech campus will happen again and again and again in this gun-crazy country. And each time, people will utter the same platitudes, "Ain't it awful!" So often the killers are young men who simply walk into a gun store or are members of a sports rifle club. Easy availability of guns contributes heavily to increasing the number of people killed. All the NRA arguments fail against that simple statistic, which can easily be proven by comparing fatality figures from different countries and even different states within the United States. Even though one cannot totally prevent such tragic incidents, owning a gun without proving a legitimate need should be illegal in the United States.
Defenders of the Second Amendment: Either accept restrictions on your rights, or accept a measure of responsibility for the Virginia Tech killings and ones that are sure to follow.
After learning about the massacre at Virginia Tech while driving home, I openly wept. I don't remember the last time that happened, but it did. As a freshman at the University of Georgia, I watched Columbine unfold, as well as other tragic shootings across the country. Now, as a high school teacher, I can only say that the problem is far from over. Every day, it is obvious that the same teens humming the teen unity anthems of Disney's "High School Musical" are the same kids that heap social pressures on others. When is society going to evolve from this petty Edith Wharton-esque, rice cooker of a social system? Who will write the novel, set the example, or just change the way we all look at each other? There has to be a better way.
"Suicide bomber (killer) strikes in the U.S." is what the Page One headline of April 17 could read and be somewhat correct. The carnage at Virginia Tech should remind Americans of what the people of Iraq endure daily. For any people to endure what the students at Virginia Tech have gone through is horrific. Are their words enough to describe what has happened? The human psyche can endure only so much. This cycle of violence must and should end. The American people are known for doing what is morally the "right things."
