I was extremely disappointed with the spiritual guidance provided in John Blake's April 21 article. The religious leaders quoted and many politicians have implied that this is a time when theology and faith should "stand silent" and that this is not the time to examine the part our choices and laws may have played in the Virginia Tech shootings. I disagree. God wants us to see and learn from the consequences of all free will choices, not just ours but all those around us. The Talmud, the Bible and the Quran were intended not just to give us the guidelines for exercising free will but to show us the consequences of choices. To ignore these lessons is to diminish the value of the lives which paid for those lessons. As for those whose faith may be challenged by the events at Virginia Tech, it is important not to confuse the free-will choices of one individual with God's will. God should not be expected to give account for humanity's choices. Nor should we expect to have the capacity to comprehend how God will work to ensure our salvation in spite of our choices.
AJC's Saturday's Faith and Values section covered the tragic Virginia Tech shootings with responses from various spiritual leaders, including the Jewish, Christian, Buddhist and Islamic faiths. Most troubling was the political tone of comments from Imam Plemon El-Amin of the Atlanta Masjid of Al-Islam. His comments offered nothing on Islam's religious point of view on violence. Instead, he politicized the discussion, by saying that violence "saturates our nation," with "a daily dose of violence" in movies, songs and violent video games, while reminding us that "we used violence to invade Iraq." But just what does the Islam religion teach and say? What is the imam's position on the violent Islamic attacks on civilians around the world, the bloody violence of sectarian Shiite vs. Sunni, the Islamic suicide bombers and beheadings? We are told that Islam is a religion of peace, but the Imam Plemon El-Amin did nothing to assure us of this.
"It's a fallen world, but the message of the Gospel is that God is with us in this. God weeps with those families," so saith the Rev. David Sapp, senior pastor of Second-Ponce de Leon Baptist Church. What a presumptuous statement! This guy has a powerful TV that monitors the face of God? How about the carnage in Iraq, Afghanistan, Sudan? Does God have tears left for them? It's such sappy pablum by those who know nothing trying to explain the unknowable that turn off nonreligious thinkers.
The questioning of God during tragic events has become an exercise in futility. Every effort to dissect God's intentions always ends up with the same solution -- no answer. We say our questions are so immense that we can only depend on faith to survive our pain and disappointments. By relying on our innate goodness and worth, we discover a great mystery. We are created in the image of creativity, yet we treat the essence of creativity as nothing more than a super form of ourselves. The God we tend to promote thinks, decides, acts and, in some temporal fashion, controls events on a second-by-second basis. Unfortunately, our faith-based education has supported and encouraged this view to the degree that we have made God the scapegoat ("How could God allow . . .?") for every irrational act perpetrated in our society. There is no temporal God -- except for the one we attempt to create. The God of creation, the God of eternal goodness and the God of compassion transcends our morality, our politics, our religiosity, our agendas and our inane questions. Isn't it time to recognize that we live in God, not with God?
Naturally, I am appalled by the fury Cho unleashed against his classmates and teachers at Virginia Tech. My condolences go out to all involved. But I'm also appalled that religious "professionals" are at a loss to explain what happened. I read once that mental illness is a war with God and the devil fighting in the mind of the victim. Cho was no "idiot" -- he was a college student, he rented a car, he navigated around a huge campus, he mastered technology, he mailed a package to NBC. He must have lived his short life entirely in hell, the poor crazy kid who identified with the suffering of Christ. Why did so many people directly connected with Cho, who saw him every day for months, fail to steer him to the help he so urgently needed? We are all in this world together, and, for better or worse, we are all Cho's brothers. Readers of this letter may not understand, but I have cried for Cho, my reviled little brother who died so needlessly, taking so many precious lives with him. If we forget that we are our brothers' keepers, we do so at our peril.
