At least two inconvenient truths come from the Virginia Tech shootings and other such tragedies: our inability to deal with the treatment of mental illness and the control of guns. The young man involved had been identified with mental problems previously and the gun retailer knew what he was selling. The two were never put together. The treatment of mental illness is very difficult, but the sale of guns is manageable. Opposition to any kind of gun control is insane. We keep track of many things in our culture rather persistently (how's your credit rating?), so what's the problem with background checks on gun buyers?
The recent killings on the campus of Virginia Tech are truly reprehensible and are to be condemned in every way possible. It is incomprehensible that on a campus of 25,000 students, one person could keep killing people. But this killing spree and others like it prove two things: 1. Had people been allowed to have the means to defend themselves, they could have stopped him. 2) Mandatory military training would have at least two direct benefits in this situation, i.e., the use of deadly force, even barehanded, and the training that just because you get shot does not mean you are going to die. This alone would have given the victims the power to face one or more armed students and overpower him or them.
The firearms dealer who sold the Glock 19 handgun to Cho Seung-Hui last month is quoted as saying, "He was a nice, clean-cut college kid. We won't sell a gun if we have any idea at all that a purchase is suspicious." Could such a transaction have been any more suspicious? What possible business does "a nice, clean-cut college kid" have with purchasing a semi- automatic killing machine? Of course, it was all perfectly legal. But the saddest part of all is that 32 people who were living very full lives just a few days ago are now dead because all that stood between them and the taking of their lives was a Roanoke firearms dealer who didn't consider the sale of such a weapon to a college kid to be "suspicious." The rest of the world looks at that and can only shake its collective head at the stupidity and stubbornness of America's idolatrous culture of the gun.
I noticed that the National Rifle Association responded to the Virginia Tech shootings by offering condolences, but "will not have further comment until all the facts are known." That's code for "until we can come up with somebody else to blame for this." My prediction is the NRA will soon announce that it has reviewed the facts and concludes that this mass killing was not because some unstable individual had free access to semi-automatic handguns, but because the administration at Virginia Tech failed to shut down the campus in time and before that had failed to expel the shooter after a teacher complained about his disturbing writing projects. There will always be unstable individuals who snap, but I hope someday we will have reasonable handgun control so those people won't have Glocks in their hands when it happens.
It is time for both sides of the gun-control issue to sit down and really think this through. There is one thing I believe is true: Guns are not the issue. The people who purchase them are. I believe that both sides would agree on that. I would like to put my two cents in and suggest something both sides would agree to, besides background checks: All purchasers would have to take the NRA gun safety class once every 10 years, and take a lie detector test every time they want to purchase a gun. The test should include questions such as: 1. Do you intend to use this gun in a crime? 2. Are you purchasing this gun for someone other than yourself? 3. Will you keep this gun safe from children? 
