Fighting over the sealed Columbine records

Re: "Columbine kin to appeal 20-year seal on depositions," April 27 news brief.



The sad part of the continual whine about the Columbine "basement tapes" is it gives credibility to an argument that some parents are making in the media. The parents of Eric Harris and Dylan Klebold are oddly always front and center in the news. Are they the only word out of hundreds of other parents who have young adults who were in school that day? While the experts gave their opinions, stated their case to Judge Lewis Babcock about the changes made in the law enforcement and educational communities, he made a decision I am happy with. The tapes are of no consequence to the prevention of future murders; in fact, it has been stated by experts that they might lead to a copycat event. Do these parents want to be responsible for that?



If you want to stop the mass murders and gun epidemic, lobby against the NRA.



Sue Cole, Littleton


Seeking unity after Virginia Tech killings

Re: "'A sense of shame, guilt,"' April 23 news story.

It is unfortunate to think about the identity crisis beginning to occur surrounding the recent events at Virginia Tech. It is especially hard to see an entire ethnicity being blamed for an incident that stemmed from one person. Being of Korean decent, Seung-Hui Cho caused a frenzy in not only the lives of Korean people in America, but also the rest of the American public as well, a frenzy that never had to occur. Around the country, discrimination is already apparent against Korean-Americans, as though every person of the ethnicity was involved. This ignorance on the part of the American people needs to stop immediately; otherwise a massive identity crisis will be in our midst. We as Americans are forgetting that it is our individuality and self-identities that separate us all as our own people. With discrimination like this, we are only setting ourselves back in history, instead of moving forward. The events that occurred at Virginia Tech should shape who we are as Americans for the better. Now is the time to come together in unity, not set ourselves apart in a time of need.



Nikki Casey, Aurora

