This letter is addressed to the many parents of teenagers who have experienced the fear, frustration and frequent inconvenience of guiding our children through this most challenging period. We set curfews, require information of whereabouts and monitor activities. However, on the occasions when we smell the alcohol or see the enlarged pupils, we are faced with how we properly and effectively deal with our child. There is a fine line between a teenager's need for self-sufficiency and a parent's responsibility for guidance and control. We parents often properly err on the side of control. Such control was not to be found in the parenting of the two Colorado teenagers who murdered 12 of their peers and one of their teachers. That the cost must be born by the children innocently slaughtered, their parents and their siblings is a tragedy shared by all parents of teenagers. When I read Scott Ostler's Friday column regarding the tragedy in Colorado, I was thoroughly grateful to see that someone -- somewhere within these swooping hordes of drama-hungry vultures -- was able to publicly acknowledge such an obnoxious and suffocating approach to what they consider to be "coverage." These past two days, as I looked at the photos of grief-stricken students plastered all over the front and inside pages of The Chronicle, I felt both deep sympathy and a flash of understanding as I recalled my experience at San Francisco State University in 1994, as a freshman resident of Mary Ward Hall. A murder-suicide had occurred on my floor, and the media had arrived on the scene barely before the ambulance, armed with cameras and microphones, aggressively snapping photographs of anguished students. As my friends and I had tried to comprehend the situation and comfort each other in the process, a television camera was jammed in my face, asking me if I wanted to "make a statement." Like the students of Columbine High, we found it impossible to begin dealing with the situation surrounded and infiltrated by such a relentless presence. Like the coverage in Littleton, the contents of articles printed by the city newspapers were swelled, punctuated with sensational headlines, the media clearly more interested in heightening the spectacle than in focusing on the facts. Such thoughtless invasion not only pours salt in horribly open wounds, but prevents the survivors from breathing. Leave Littleton alone.
