On Tuesday morning, Manny Babbitt was killed. Has Governor Gray Davis or any other adult stopped to consider how the death penalty and the tragedy at Columbine High School may be linked? On one hand adults tell children they should be kind, thoughtful, tolerant and reasonable with one another; then turn around and say through capital punishment that it's OK to kill people they don't like or approve of. Adults have adopted a vengeance mentality in dealing with crime and other social problems, yet they want children to somehow be different. There is no justification for the death penalty except to satisfy some need for vengeance. I see no expla nation for what those two boys did, except to say that their actions satisfied their feelings of vengeance against those they despised. Nothing justifies what happened at Columbine High School. Nothing can fully explain why those two boys did what they did. But unless grown ups look at what they are really saying to kids, the next Columbine, Paducah, Jonesboro, Springfield or Oklahoma City will not be long in coming.
The only way to bring religion and God into our public schools is to have a tragedy like we had in Littleton, Colo. There are memorial services and prayers for the victims and many people seek religion to comfort the agony of the pain. If it were not for some tragic event, public schools would have a complete ban against, and rejection of, religion. To me it looks like adults set an example for young people to seek religion for big problems and the gun is sufficient to settle the small ones. Public schools have rejected religion and do not offer an alternative that helps students deal with the emotions that will confront them throughout their lives. In this void in education there are many parents who cannot deal with their own problems, so what will they teach their children? They will do nothing, and cry, "Oh, my God! Oh, my God!" at the next tragedy.
I read a letter by Gary Huygen addressed to "every gun-toting member" of the NRA. Huygen is just another in a long line of cheap- shot artists who who take the easy way out and blame the NRA for gun violence by criminals. We NRA members are law abiding citizens. And the ghastly incident in Colorado has shed new light on the meaning of the phrase "to protect and serve." While two teenage commandos were systematically murdering kids in school, Colorado's finest were outside discussing strategy. Luckily, none of them were hurt. So, Gary, when you are in trouble and unarmed, just dial 911 and the cops might help you, or they might not help you. Depends. You can cower, lock yourself in the bathroom and pray all you want. You can promise your god that you will be good from now on. As for me, I will dial 911, and if I die, I will go down fighting. At least I will have a chance, even if you don't want me to.
Why aren't people who call themselves "pro-life" standing in front of gun stores holding up true graphic images of children slain by guns? I guess it would take more courage than it does to verbally harass and attempt to humiliate women and girls.
