ARE YOU mad enough yet? My first response after the initial shock of the shootings at Columbine High School in Colorado was, "Thank God, my child has just one more month of high school left!"

Our beloved children have the right to feel safe at least six to seven hours a day doing something as innocent as attending school. They have the right to reflect on their high-school years with happy not horrific memories. These Colorado students and students of the previous shooting incidents will never be able to reflect on their school years in such a manner - the "lucky" ones who survived, that is.

Write to your congressman.

Offer solutions! We have a presidential election around the corner, parents, and the ball is in our court. Joan Williams, WINTER SPRINGS

James N. Coffin is pastor of the Markham Woods Seventh-day Adventist Church in Longwood.

When at least 15 high-school students are massacred by fellow students in a seemingly trouble-free "Mainstreet U.S.A." school, it captures the nation's attention.

When the initial shock wears off, we ask the obvious: What could have been done to prevent it? We next ask: What can be done to prevent a recurrence?

Undoubtedly, stiffer laws will be enacted. More school security guards will be hired. Students may have to arrive half an hour early simply to get through the security check before class.

Human tragedies of the magnitude seen in Colorado invariably galvanize the public and lawmakers into action. But often the response, though well-intended, is unwittingly hypocritical.

Note the following:

- It's ironic that we're most likely to clamor for extreme corrective measures when the events are bizarre and when the corrective measures make life more complicated for only a small number of people.

For example, throughout the United States there are nearly as many youth killed in traffic accidents on an average day as were killed in Littleton. Further, traffic fatalities could all but be eradicated - if we were willing to put up with the inconvenience.

If speed limits of 20 miles per hour in cities and 40 mph on the open road were approved and enforced, vehicular death would all but cease to exist - particularly if all motor-vehicle occupants wore helmets.

But in our rat-race, freedom-loving society, we choose to sacrifice lives daily for the sake of convenience. Who wants to take "forever" to get to one's destination, and who wants to wear a helmet in a car?

Yet each year thousands of people end up in the morgue as a result of our hurry and unwillingness to don protective gear.

- Closely connected to the preceding is our continued unwillingness to limit the availability of deadly weapons.

We have our constitutional rights to protect, we argue. And if the United States Constitution guarantees the right to bear arms, we won't relinquish that right under any circumstances - not even if the ready availability of weaponry is contributing to an increase in violent crime. And not even if today's rationale for personal-arms possession is no longer what the Constitution's framers had in mind.

- Finally, we easily fall into the trap of expecting legislation to remedy everything.

It can't.

At its most fundamental level, the problem in Littleton was a moral-values issue that no legislature can adequately address.

Moral education is the responsibility of parents, of churches, synagogues and other providers of spiritual instruction. It involves community role models who demonstrate what it means to respect God, self and others. It involves you and me.

Tighter security measures may help. But most security measures are predicated on the assumption that the would-be criminal doesn't want to be incarcerated and desires to remain alive.

The purveyors of death in Littleton had no such moral values.

Whatever their delusions, they were willing to lay down their own lives for the sake of depriving others of life. Human quick-fixes just aren't adequate when the problem becomes that deep-seated.

God help us.