COLUMBINE HIGH School is a good example of why there should be stricter standards of conduct and dress in schools nationwide. Loose- fitting clothes and coats are perfect vehicles for kids to smuggle in weapons and other contraband. Let's face it, folks, kids use loose- fitting garb for stashing stolen items, drugs, weapons, etc. Good kids may like loose-fitting clothes too, but bad kids love them; they can't live and work without them; they are essential for ongoing deviant behavior. Schools have become a forum for students' rebellion in the form of dress, jewelry, piercings, tattoos and bad conduct in general. The two young killers in Denver may have been stockpiling bombs and weapons for weeks, bringing them in one at a time under their fashionable trenchcoats and stashing them in their lockers. It's time for some norms at school. Let kids rebel after classes are over if they want.
THERE IS something surreal about watching wrenching interviews on cable television with Columbine High School students while at the same time there is an ever-present Dow Jones ticker flashing on the bottom of the screen. Clearly there are many factors that contribute to a tragedy such as this, but one that is overlooked is our obsession with money. Parents put extraordinary energy into pursuing affluence with the questionable logic that bigger houses and fancier cars are good for their chidlren. It is ironic that oftentimes it is in comfortable places such as Littleton where divorce is rampant, children are neglected by their parents and the most heinous crimes occur. Perhaps we all need to rethink whether our kids need more toys or more time with their families.
IN THE aftermath of the tragic school deaths in Littleton, Colo., America has paused collectively to shake its head and ask: Why? How? Could it happen here in Central Florida? Fingers are being pointed to potential culprits, and the search for the root of the problem continues. The killers' involvement in the "Trench Coat Mafia" has come into question as a possible cause or catalyst for the unexpected, horrific carnage at Columbine High School. However, major news reports neglect to mention the effect environment has on students. Within the past month, bomb after bomb has been detonated in Kosovo. The president of the United States now has us involved in what could potentially be an escalating World War III. Pictures of the "Crisis in Kosovo" have been relayed back to every American television. And we wonder why two high-school boys would walk into a school library, set off bombs, shoot fellow classmates point blank and then kill themselves?
