We should not be surprised about the news of the horrific slaughter in the Amish schoolhouse (front page, Oct. 3). There has been a crisis in guns in America for some time now. There are millions of guns in the hands of our citizens. The National Rifle Association doesn't care, nor does Congress. It is too late for gun control. There are now too many guns for the success of any legal regulation. We should expect, therefore, to learn of more killings of students at school and others in the future caused by the pestilence of guns inflicted on the country, and we should no longer be surprised.
In ''Three School Shootings'' (editorial, Oct. 3), you say it isn't ''possible or politically tolerable to keep tabs on every gun.'' Since the majority of the American people support more stringent and effective gun control, and the digital technology is certainly available to do so, I would ask: Why not? How many more innocent lives of schoolchildren must be sacrificed before Congress and the American electorate demonstrate the political will to enact strong and comprehensive gun control?
In the last five and a half weeks, five schools in the United States and Canada have suffered the invasion of gunmen: Aug. 24, Essex, Vt.; Sept. 13, Montreal; Sept. 27, Bailey, Colo.; Sept. 29, Cazenovia, Wis. And now, Oct. 2, Nickel Mines, Pa. In four of these five incidents, the gunman targeted girls and women. At what point do a country and its news media note this lethally combustible cocktail of gender and guns? Men and boys with guns are stalking and hunting women and girls in schools repeatedly. Until we see ''the gun problem'' as equally a problem of violence against women, nothing will change, and I fear that the mourning and shock will continue.
The rash of recent school killings once again raises the issue of gun control. You write (''Three School Shootings, editorial, Oct. 3) that ''in these killings we see an open society threatened by the ubiquity of its weapons, in which one kind of freedom is allowed to trump all others.'' In most civilized countries, citizens are not free to carry weapons, and they do not have the extraordinary murder rate that the United States does. Why do we refuse to see the connection? Rather than a freedom, let us call it what it is: terrorism at home.
Those of us who can still think logically on the gun issue have long been aware that banning guns from schools simply makes them a safe, target-rich environment for anyone who wants to kill children for whatever sick reason he may have. It would be far better if laws banning guns from schools were repealed, and school employees with permits to carry firearms were allowed -- even encouraged -- to carry guns onto school property. Even if a shot were never fired, the possible presence of armed defenders would make any would-be mass murderer think twice. As for the possible effect upon the psyches of the students if they knew that some of their teachers were carrying guns, or had them in their cars or offices, it seems to me that kids have no problem with armed police and military personnel, because they know that those people are armed to protect them. 
