Here we go again with another campus shooting. It's all the rage these days. And here we will go again with more impotent calls for restrictions of firearms ownership, I expect. What will that accomplish? Every day we are indoctrinating our youth that violence is acceptable, even glorified. The "gun culture" is alive and real in the U.S., but not as the media and the enemies of the Second Amendment would have us think. The "gun culture" is in media itself: TV programs, movies, "graphic novels," video games - virtually every drama features violent acts, usually involving firearms. Does that mean that, in order to end killing sprees and other violence, we must further restrict firearms? Just the opposite. We must effect a fundamental change in our popular culture. People must make it clear to the entertainment industry and the media that the constant depiction and glorification of violence is unacceptable. Turn off the news when they obsess over acts of violence. Throw away the video games. Avoid movies and TV shows whose plots stack up the body counts. Bypass the sections in the bookstore with the graphic novels. Make it clear to youth (and other adults) that acting out is not the way people deal with problems. The second part of the solution is to put more armed people on the street. What if there had been one or more people who were armed, trained and mentally prepared to defend themselves and other citizens from the latest onslaught at Northern Illinois University? The spree would have ended right there, as it did in Colorado Springs at New Life Church when an armed citizen took action. Like the first part of the solution, this requires a fundamental change in public policy thinking. Restriction of firearms possession, gun bans, anti-carry rules are all failed policies that do nothing other than make students sheep for the slaughter. It's past time to reject those bureaucrats and politicians who posture in combatting the epidemic of violence by installing more useless, impotent firearms restrictions. 
