Regarding the April 17 "My Word" piece by Jack A. Chambless, "More guns, not fewer, would have saved lives": Chambless' contention that having students armed at Virginia Tech would have saved lives is irresponsible. His uncritical reference to a dated 10-year-old study compiled at the University of Chicago is faulty scholarship and his assertion that advocates of gun control are ignorant is insulting.  According to the 2007 Small Arms Survey published by the Oxford University Press, the U.S. has 90 weapons per each 100 civilians -- the highest weapons possession in the world. This is three times the rate of weapons possessed by Canadian civilians. Nonetheless, murders per capita in Canada are only one-third those of the U.S. Clearly, we must do something constructive to curb violence in our country, but more guns is not the answer.  For the Orlando Sentinel to have legitimized Chambless' viewpoint by publishing it as other than a letter to the editor also is irresponsible. In light of the great tragedy at Virginia Tech, it even may have been indecent.
Outside of Virginia, Virginia Tech was rarely known for more than football. Despite being a campus of 26,000 and 10,000 employees, it is a tight-knit community where a sense of honor prevails. Monday, Blacksburg became known for one more thing, for which I grieve.  Please know that Virginia Tech is an amazing institution where many discoveries have been made that impact the world. It's students come from all parts of the country and major in just about everything. The campus is beautiful, and one can get lost in the green spaces while walking to class.  When time has passed, and a sense of normalcy has returned, I hope everyone discovers Virginia Tech for being one more thing: a caring, first-class institution.
As a senior at UCF, I was absolutely horrified by the tragic events that took place at Virginia Tech University. I realize you could never entirely secure a college campus, but I think that schools should utilize the one tool that practically all of us students have with us at all times: our cell phones.  I think every school should create a database of cell-phone numbers that would enable law enforcement to send out mass text messages that would warn students if there was a lockdown on campus. Most students don't hesitate to check their text messages, even if they are in class when they receive them.  Many view cell phones as an annoyance, but no one would deny what an important role these devices played on 9-11. It may not be a flawless system, but at least students would have a better chance of being informed of imminent danger.  My heart goes out to the friends and families of those who lives were taken on Monday.
