Untreated mental illness exacts its toll on a larger community than other untreated illness. Sorrowfully, the Virginia Tech massacre explodes our consciousness of the wide-reaching epidemic nature of brain disorders.  Related and recent tragedies abound: Who can forget Andrea Yates, who, while suffering from major depression, drowned her own little children? Not long ago, passengers, airline employees and the nation reeled in the aftermath of the federal air marshal shooting of Rigoberto Alpizar, who had failed to take his medication for his mental illness. And, late last year, Department of Children & Families Secretary Lucy Hadi resigned in the contentious aftermath of being fined for allowing mentally ill individuals to remain in jail because there were no treatment facilities available.  These calamities are senseless, but they are not without meaning. The story behind the stories speaks of a national epidemic. Like any epidemic, treatment barriers confound its eradication.  But the parallel stops there. These tragedies are exacerbated by an awful irony -- treatment works, and it is available. But there are significant barriers to treatment delivery: Payers discriminate in reimbursement for mental illness; physician visits are limited and access to medication is hindered by complex formularies. There are too few treatment beds for the chronically ill. Affordable preventive treatment is scarce. Worse, centuries-old shame and stigma hinder acknowledgment of the illness; it is also a barrier to those who would otherwise share their stories of transformation and recovery.  The impediments are artifice, borne of stigma and nurtured by inequity and ignorance. Ironically, it is the very stigma of mental illness that quiets our outrage at inequitable reimbursement and lack of access. Until we join in a demand for treatment at par to other physical illness, and blast away the stigma that surrounds these illnesses, the tragedies will continue.
The culture of passivity that so vehemently seeks our abandonment of Iraq and constraints on the use of our military will not see the lessons that Virginia Tech so painfully gives our nation. Most will see this as an isolated incident and not as a reflection of the broader world that we live in.  The lessons are this: A passive nature will not keep others from harming you. If you leave other persons or nations or cultures alone, their motives and plans to harm you do not disappear. You cannot keep the bad part of the world at bay with talk, dialogue, and peaceful gestures. Bad people are part of the real world -- always have been, always will be. They can only be stopped with, dare I say it, violence.  Virginia Tech before the massacre is the peace Democrats will offer us in 2008, and they're going to get their way. We can all sense it coming. It'll look and feel just like peace, right up to the moment some bad person comes along and smashes the illusion.
