It's time to challenge this nation's gun cultureThank you , E.J. Dionne Jr., for articulating what so many people have been thinking ("It's time to stand up to NRA," April 16). If George Zimmerman had not been armed with a handgun he had no business carrying, then Trayvon Martin would be at home with his parents today - as would so many other innocent victims of angry, mentally ill, unstable or just plain trigger-happy shooters.
I remember the days when a tragedy like this would spark demands for stricter gun control across the country. Now those voices are silent as the public assumes that any condemnation of guns is useless in the face of the NRA's moneyed influence. And so guns continue to be the driver behind our nation's most devastating crimes: the shooting of Arizona Rep. Gabrielle Giffords; the massacre at Oakland's Oikos University; and a catalog of horrors too numerous to name.
The NRA is only too happy to sit back and watch the finger pointing about race in Trayvon Martin's murder. Instead of being divided, let us unite, black and white, and stand up to the NRA to enact sensible gun laws that will make our nation safer for all. Our security does not come from firearms, but from their absence on our streets.
Tai Moses, Oakland
Start young, teach safetyThe only thing E.J. Dionne Jr. got right in his feckless April 16 opinion piece was his idea about arming 10-year-olds.
I got my first rifle when I was 10, and while I don't agree with his silly idea that the NRA would want kids to take their guns to school - my rifle was kept firmly under parental control until I had learned what it is to be responsible for it - 10 is about the right age to begin to teach marksmanship and gun safety. Learn the basics before the testosterone, or estrogen, kick in and play havoc with the emotions.
The real danger is not the NRA, which teaches gun safety, but folks without training, so by all means, teach the kids the truth about guns starting around 10. Fear, ignorance and ranting nonsense are no substitute for understanding and responsibility.
Charles Huddleston, Soquel
