To the Editor:

Re “After Pinpointing Gun Owners, Paper Is a Target” (front page, Jan. 7):

Am I the only person confused by the inconsistent reasoning of America’s most vociferous pro-gun supporters? Since the tragedy in Newtown, Conn., pro-gun activists have insisted that “bad” people with guns would stay away from places where they knew that “good” people, too, had guns. Thus they advise arming the “good” people.

But now we learn from the president of the Westchester County Firearms Owners Association that its members are “really upset” with a local newspaper that published public records identifying the names and addresses of the area’s presumably “good” gun owners, and that those identified are “afraid for their families.”

Huh? If “bad” people with guns will be deterred by knowing which “good” people also have guns, shouldn’t identifying them assure the “good” ones of more safety, not less?

And speaking of safety, how come those “really upset” gun owners are threatening to destroy the incomes of, and even to shoot, the owners and employees of the offending newspaper? I thought they were supposed to be the “good” people. Maybe that’s the problem in America these days. It’s so hard to tell the “good” people from the “bad” ones.

JUDY BALABAN
Beverly Hills, Calif., Jan. 7, 2013

To the Editor:

In your article, a Journal News reporter, Dwight R. Worley, defends his newspaper’s publishing of gun owner names and addresses by saying, “The people have as much of a right to know who owns guns in their communities as gun owners have to own weapons.”

That’s not true. The right to own a gun as well as the right to privacy are both constitutionally protected, while there is no “right” to know whether your neighbor has a gun. That latter claim reflects a misunderstanding of New York’s Freedom of Information Act.

The intent of the law was not to facilitate the government’s revealing sensitive information about its citizenry, but rather to make sure the government cannot conceal its own ineptitude or malfeasance from any legitimate inquiry from the media or any other private interest.

The Journal News’s action was outside the spirit of the law. The State Legislature and Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo now need to amend the law to avoid such journalistic abuse.
D. M. MARKOWITZ
Wilton, N.Y., Jan. 7, 2013
