On Friday, a few hours after learning about the senseless shooting rampage at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Conn., I was prompted to take a long walk in my small town of Piedmont. The walk provided much-needed silence and space to reflect on the horrific tragedy that has touched so many. On my way home, I walked past our town's relatively new and lovely elementary school, Frank C. Havens, and through an open window in the school's auditorium I could hear the clear and truly enchanting voices of children practicing a song for an upcoming winter concert. I paused and listened, as the singing voices made me smile and feel hope. Immense hope, in fact, that even in the face of random acts of unthinkable violence perpetrated against the most vulnerable in our communities: our children, that to be human is to love deeply and passionately - and we have the power to bind together and collectively upend the interests of the few who gain so much in making weapons that eviscerate the innocent.
I think part of the motive for public shooting is publicity and attention, something the loner type killers never got in life. The shooter knows, even after he's dead, he will be identified, his face will be shown on the media, the police will examine his motives and everything will be shown on TV. If the media collectively refused to reward the shooters with publicity, it would remove part of motivation to kill innocent people.
Rep. Louie Gohmert's, R-Texas, comments about wishing that the principal of Sandy Hook Elementary School had had a gun made me think about a 1972 episode of "All in the Family" called "Archie and the Editorial." In it, Archie Bunker gives a citizen's editorial on TV where he states his opposition to gun control laws. He says that, in the case of skyjackings, for example, rather than search the passengers for weapons before they board the plane, each passenger should be handed a gun. That way, no potential skyjacker will try anything. It got big laughs then. It's almost unbelievable that, forty years later, a member of the U.S. House of Representatives, Louie Gohmert, would say the same thing but be absolutely serious about it.
Having endured 13 mass shootings in less than two decades, the government of Australia initiated a complete ban against all semiautomatic weapons in 1996. There has not been a single such incident since then. I rest my case.
In light of the Sandy Hook killings, can we treat this as a public health issue? If I must provide my driver's license number in order to purchase a package of pseudoephedrine hydrochloride (and cope with the blister package containing the tablets), couldn't we require similar measures for one purchasing bullets to load in a gun? We don't need gun control, we need ammunition control.
Around 5,000 people are killed each year in America while they are simply out for a walk. Most of the victims are children. Using Obama-logic, we should try to ban cars and trucks, and if that doesn't get through Congress, seek to limit engine horsepower so that speeds of vehicles can no longer exceed 2 miles per hour. If Republicans won't agree to horsepower limits, then using Obama-logic, a way will be sought to declare more drivers insane, and thereby deny them a license to drive; since as everyone who uses Obama-logic knows, just by denying a person a government permit, any behavior can be curtailed. Just as the use of crossing guards has dramatically reduced the number of school children hit by cars, stopping the reckless practice of keeping schools as "gun free" zones, by allowing staff to carry concealed weapons and requiring each school to have at least one armed security officer, will mitigate the effects of future attacks on schools.
I would like to know what pharmaceutical antidepressant drugs these young troubled men are taking before they explode in violent rage. Most of them came from families who cared and sent them to psychiatrists who undoubtedly prescribed some antidepressant drug. Which one is it? More study has to be done on the subject.
I know you're worried that the government is going to take your guns, and that gun-control advocates just want to infringe on your rights just for the sake of infringing on your rights. So fine, let's assume for argument's sake that we shouldn't change gun laws or we can't enforce the existing laws, and people have rights to their weaponry. After all, we can't magically make criminals not be criminals. I would like to see gun owners posting memes on Facebook about locking up your weapons and keeping them out of the hands of kids and criminals. I want to see gun owners notice when their buddy at the gun range seems depressed and maybe start a conversation about that. In this latest tragedy, it seems the shooter's mother wasn't careful enough about storing her weapons securely. Did anybody notice or care? If you're a self-appointed member of a "well regulated militia," regulate thyself!
How can we live like this? We have to act against the madness. Every single life is a universe. And every senseless death is an entire universe snuffed out. The Second Amendment doesn't mean you can have an atomic bomb or an ICBM to reign terror on your neighbors' head. The right to bear arms doesn't mean each man can be his own private army. We have been paralyzed on this issue for too long as our children are being gunned down. I can't take it any more. Can you?
Automatic weaponry has become an option for the emotionally disturbed. It is insane, on our part, to believe they will not be used again.
A Sandy Hook Elementary School teacher was being interviewed after the horrendous event in Newtown, Conn. She had led her students into the classroom's bathroom, barricaded the door and asked them to be silent while hiding. She said, "I told them that I loved them. I wanted this to be the last thing they heard before their possible deaths." In this uncertain world, her words struck me as being a model to follow while communicating with family and friends. Sometimes our parting words may be angry or demeaning. If, that person has a tragic accident or dies before we speak with them again, those harsh words would be the last words they heard from us. Her model has moved me to want to be more aware of my own parting words with a family member or friend. I want to be conscious, whenever possible, to have my closure be gracious and kind.
Nick Anderson's editorial cartoon in Saturday's Chronicle hit me very hard - smoldering bullet casings lying on the floor alongside crayons that had been used by little kids to draw a rainbow, smiling sun and a puffy cloud in the blue sky. With heavy hearts, my wife and I have signed multiple petitions to the president, Congress and other organizations. Petitions are fine. But those of us who are now grandparents: Remember our successful marches against the Vietnam War and before that our marches for civil rights. It is time for us to put our feet on the ground once more against the NRA. Last time I checked, it had about 4 million members. Elementary school PTAs have more than 5 million. Let's rally around existing organizations that we know care about our kids, grandkids and neighbors' kids. Our elected leaders will ignore us at their peril. We will demand new gun laws that will protect our most cherished. Call your local school. Find out when the next meeting is. And be there.
I just hope we don't see some video game in the future with name Sandy Hook as part of the title. It seems to me the video-game producers have done enough harm already.
There is an old but true saying that may be modified to include the mentally ill: If you outlaw guns, only outlaws will have guns. Criminals and the mentally ill and foreign terrorists are not going to obey any gun laws.
Where was God in Newtown, Conn.? Is that the same God who was kicked out of public schools? Is that the same God who was erased from town squares at Christmastime?
Your Dec. 15 editorial, "The nightmare gets worse, is the strongest, most cogent statement on the subject to date. I would add only one thing: The term "guns" is used too broadly. As in other forms of weaponry, let's call for a control of "mass murder devices," or MMDs. That's what these handheld machine guns are. They have nothing to do with hunting or target practice. Words matter.
While I believe gun control is sorely needed in our fair land, we must ask ourselves whether we were at fault, too, for not providing for Adam Lanza's complex needs. My heart, like everyone's, breaks for the victims' families. But I read Adam Lanza was diagnosed with Asperger's disorder, a disability on the autism spectrum. I represented children with disabilities for many years as their attorney advocate in special education. I know children like Adam firsthand. While school staff often wants to provide appropriate services to special-needs children, they are severely restricted by scarce funding. State and federal laws require public schools in mainly unfunded mandates to provide children like Adam the education and services they need to learn and become healthy, functioning members of our society. Their needs are complex and difficult to serve, and often require special schools. Yes, it is expensive. But the cost in not providing for him is far worse to all of us. We must examine our willingness as a society to provide proper education and services to all children, including those with disabilities like Adam. If not, we can only blame ourselves for the tragedies that repeat. We will not benefit from the gifts that all children can provide us. Special-needs children and their pain are as much ours as the beautiful lost treasures in Adam's rampage and the heartbreak we experienced.
I removed my NRA bumper sticker. Not because of the tragedy but because of fear. It seems a liberal-leaning women screamed at me and threatened me. Her anger clearly directed toward a total stranger. I stood in amazement how the San Francisco Chronicle can get the left-wing fanatics so stirred up that violence is justified and condoned. Before the poor souls of these kids were buried, the ghoulish left came in full force to exploit this tragedy. Thank you for thinking of your own political agenda first and the victims and families second.
In the discussions after the many mass shootings, I have listened in vain for comments about the extreme violence in video games that many American boys have been watching for most of their young lives. In Saturday's Datebook, was a review of "Warfighter" with colorful and graphic pictures of blasting weapons. It is up to parents to monitor what children watch, but when the entertainment media seems to offer more and more violence with few interesting alternatives it can be almost impossible to avoid their influence. The images presented so colorfully fill their minds with a distorted view of the world and the way to deal with problems. With video games (and movies) as role models, plus the easy availability of guns, resentful, angry young men seem to choose this kind of solution to their frustrations. I would hope that the creators of films and games will try harder to find other subjects and challenging games that will not emphasize blasting guns before any more tragedies take place.
