Investors may want to consult with their portfolio managers to determine if they are investing in companies that manufacture assault weapons, and, if so, decide if they want to continue putting their money into those enterprises. Pension holders also may want to inquire if their pension fund includes assault weapons. I was surprised to learn that my mutual fund included a hedge fund that finances gun manufacturers, and instructed my fund manager to discontinue any further investment in a company whose product is designed solely to kill people.
If assault weapons are to be banned, it might be a good idea to make this action retroactive, due to those flurries of purchasing activity which occur every time there's another massacre. There are records of each purchase. Ask people to return any banned weapons purchased within the past three years for a full refund. If they don't comply, contact them.
Let me be politically incorrect and partially blame one of the victims. Why, oh why in heaven's name, did Adam Lanza's mother think that having five weapons in her house was a sane thing to do? It makes me question her judgment - no, her mental stability. The only safe gun is no gun.
The author of "Get it right" (Letters, Dec. 19) certainly is right when he points out that both Debra J. Saunders and Sen. Dianne Feinstein are incorrect when they use the term "clip" instead of "magazine" when talking about guns. But let's not split hairs here. Everyone with any sense knows what is being talked about here. This subject should not be diluted to being a discussion of semantics. Let's stay focused on the real problem. The proliferation of assault weapons (and if you correct my use of this term, you will prove that you are just trying to distract people). Concentrate!
For goodness sake, fellow Americans, say no to the National Rifle Association. We are now in the supposedly civilized 21st century, not in the lawless fields and villages of the wild, wild West. The idea of teachers toting guns to protect their students - and they'd have to have assault rifles to have a chance against attackers armed to the teeth with the latest military-style automatics - clearly reveals the irrationality of the gun lobby. Our government represents the people, and if the people are indifferent about gun control, the government can't do much to protect us from gun violence.
There is much hand wringing over the death of the precious children at Sandy Hook. Justifiably so! But what we are not talking about are the many hundreds of children caught in drone attacks in countries we have no right to be in: Afghanistan, Somalia, Pakistan and Yemen. The Obama administration seems to be on a mission to alienate as many countries as possible. Drone attacks have killed an estimated 2,500 humans since Obama took office.
On Tuesday I read with horror a letter to the editor column from an NRA member actually casting himself as a victim. After last week's massacre, including 20 little children, the NRA, sensibly, has remained silent. But this "poor man" was threatened by what he called, "a liberal-leaning woman" who used words to threaten (rather than using guns). And he goes on to say "left-wing fanatics so stirred up that violence is justified and condoned ... the ghoulish left came in full force to exploit this tragedy." Really, I am so shocked that any comments I might make would be superfluous. Thank you, Chronicle, for printing this letter. I hope all of us, of the "ghoulish left" who think of our "own political agenda first and the victims and families second" needed to see it.
Debra J. Saunders wrote Dec. 18 that "the more people support bans like the 1994 assault-weapons law, the less they know about guns." I earned an expert rating on the rifle range in the Army and have been on deer hunts. We who know about guns know that the most ineffective weapon for self or home protection is a handgun of any type. If you want to protect your home, use a shotgun. Guns specifically designed to kill people like handguns, automatic and semiautomatic assault weapons (yes, I know the difference) have no place in civilized society. It's only criminals or the adolescent-minded macho types who lust after them. True hunting sportsmen are quite content to make do with single-action rifles and shotguns. 
