Virginia Tech students gunned down
Editor -- Once again, a madman with a gun has taken too many innocent lives. Once again, we will all express horror. Once again, we will ask why Americans are permitted to own powerful, readily concealed killing machines. Once again, the NRA will tell us that people, not guns, kill people.
These weapons are designed solely to kill people. Most of the civilized world bans them. Contrary to gun-owners' assertions, they do not protect us from deranged, angry or politically motivated people. In a world where more and more people own guns, more and more deranged, angry or extreme individuals will own guns. Until handguns are eliminated by stringently enforced laws that ensure that no one, including outlaws, own handguns, no one is safe.
MARK LAUDEN CROSLEY
San Francisco
-- -- --
Editor -- Could anything be more shocking than this? Who could imagine that an American college campus could be as deadly a place as a Baghdad street?
But let's not get carried away here. We may be sure that the bleeding-heart liberals will make a huge fuss about this one isolated incident and try use it to stampede us into abandoning our Second Amendment right to bear arms. My right, your right and the right of every other homicidal maniac to own -- and use -- guns.
RALPH CHERNOFF
Arcata (Humboldt County)
-- -- --
Editor -- I would like to say to any politician who panders to the NRA and dares to stand in front of a microphone to talk about how tragic the Virginia Tech massacre is: "Be silent and remember that you are a co-conspirator."
STEPHANIE MEYER
Napa
-- -- --
Editor -- Thirty-two innocent people senselessly murdered on a bright beautiful spring day: A tragedy of monumental proportions at Virginia Tech, just another day in the neighborhood in Baghdad.
CHRIS BREYER
Inverness
-- -- --
Editor -- While I was shocked and horrified when I saw the headline on sfgate.com about the shootings on the Virginia Tech campus, I was equally shocked to see that President Bush used this opportunity to endorse gun rights just hours after the incident.
"The president believes that there is a right for people to bear arms, but that all laws must be followed." Can't we let some time pass before politicizing this tragedy while reassuring our friends in the gun lobby?
MATT FIDLER
