America's culture of blame
Editor -- Every time something tragic occurs in this country, the first thing many people want to do is find fault with or blame someone. The culture of blame in which we live provides an excuse for everything that is wrong with the world.
The fact of the matter is, sometimes bad things happen and no one is to blame! It is far healthier to grieve for and remember the ones we have lost than to blame the ones still here.
STEFAN WEVER
San Francisco
-- -- --
Editor -- Let's step back from accusing the university of poor judgment and ask ourselves if the policy for universities should be to shut down if someone is shot in a dormitory or housing, if that shooter is not immediately captured. At some point, reacting becomes overreacting and can cause more damage. Let's go with a good investigation for an understanding of what happened, not accusations and lawsuits.
RALF STINSON
Alameda
-- -- --
Editor -- Chris Breyer states that the 32 people killed at Virginia Tech amounts to "... just another day in the neighborhood in Baghdad'' (Letters, April 17.
I'd like to point out to him and your other readers that, in America, approximately 60 people a day, every day, are murdered with guns. As a nation, why are these people less important to us?
AARON LEE
Woodacre
-- -- --
Editor -- Tom Meyer's editorial cartoon in the April 17 edition regarding the Virginia Tech shootings was particularly striking. It depicted outlines of bodies strewn about, captioned with the text of the Second Amendment: "A well-regulated militia being necessary to the security of a free state, the right of the people to keep and bear arms shall not be infringed ...''
It struck me that the artist, without realizing it, presented both the problem that the Founding Fathers were trying to prevent, along with the solution they intended.
I can guarantee you that if even a few of the students and teachers in that classroom building had "the right to keep and bear arms'' on campus (with extensive training, according to the "well-regulated" clause), Cho Seung-Hui would not have managed to kill 32 people.
JAMES MACK
Palo Alto
-- -- --
Editor -- The predictable outrage greets us this morning about the carnage at Virginia Tech -- as it should. But where's the country's outrage as youngsters are picked off individually, every day, in poor neighborhoods all around the country? They die alone, one at a time, with no fat headlines to announce their deaths. The carnage is just as great, hurts just as much and goes on year after year after year.
CLAIRE LOMAX
Oakland
-- -- --
Editor -- According to criminologist Gary Kleck, a onetime "gun control'' advocate, there are some 80 million gun owners in this country preventing approximately 6,000 crimes a day through safe and responsible firearms handling. Yet the media pays little attention to these everyday acts of heroism. Those who misuse firearms, on the other hand, become big media stars.
COLIN HUSSEY
San Francisco
-- -- --
Editor -- Already in the wake of the Virginia Tech tragedy there are defenses from the Bush administration and conservatives on the right to bear arms.
Interesting how the same people who would readily give away freedom of speech and the right to habeas corpus, among our other personal liberties, would cling to one so damaging and dangerous.
Name another country where on some regular basis there are holocausts such as Monday's, let alone cultures where guns are as accessible?
LAWR MICHAELS
El Cerrito
-- -- --
Editor -- In 1966, a few months after my own graduation from the University of Texas, a gunman climbed the university bell tower and shot to death 16 people, one of whom was a harmless university staff member, a woman I knew by sight. I remember frantically trying to call my friends.
Forty-one years later, history repeats itself and there is still no gun control in this country. Apparently there never will be. Meanwhile, I have narrowly escaped being shot at several times in this comparatively safe town of El Cerrito. I am disgusted.
DIANE AMES
