You quote one of the survivors of the shooting in Roseburg, Ore., as saying he wants to have a gun in his house to protect himself. That is perfectly logical and understandable. Unfortunately, it is also an example of the adage that for every complicated problem there is a solution that is simple and obvious and wrong. If someone such as the man you quoted does get a firearm, the person he is most likely to shoot will be his spouse, followed by his children and parents. Having a gun in the house will increase the likelihood that he will commit suicide. He will be much more likely to become the victim of an accidental wounding or death by firearm. Compared with the likelihood of one of those events, the chances that he will use his weapon to resist an armed criminal are very small. Indeed, the probability that a criminal will steal his gun to use in a future crime is far greater than the possibility that the gun owner will use it to uphold the law.
A few days after the Roseburg shootings, an adult student told a TV interviewer that he had had a gun with him at the time of the shooting. Why didn’t he use it? Because, he answered, he knew that the SWAT team would be there at any time. How would it know who was the good guy and who the bad if they were both armed and shooting? I believe that’s an appropriate response and why it’s not a good idea for private citizens — even well-intentioned ones — to be carrying guns.
Can’t nonlethal weapons thwart a gunman? There are pepper sprays, Tasers and rubber bullets. They can be fired more freely than guns, with little risk to bystanders. They can be carried by more people in a crowd. If we can’t be less violent, let’s at least be less deadly.
I was raised with guns. We had a mountain home and I was taught to hunt and given my first rifle at age 6. (I quit hunting 40 years ago.) I am also a retired law enforcement officer and fully understand the need or desire for firearms on many levels.  In the 1940s and ’50s the National Rifle Association was a shooting sports safety organization. Today, it is nothing more than a shill for the gun industry. I have no problem with law-abiding citizens owning firearms, but our country’s fascination and preoccupation with guns, particularly military-style weaponry, is ludicrous. Our problem is not solely the abundance of guns and easy access to them, but, even worse, the “gun culture” that pervades our society. On a domestic violence call years ago, a toddler in the home pointed to my sidearm and asked, “Nine miwee meetew?” Not “gun,” mind you, but his best attempt at saying “nine millimeter.”
In “Gun Control Explained” (nytimes.com, Oct. 7), you say, “While gun-rights advocates say more people armed equal a safer society, people who favor gun control say the opposite is true: the more people carry weapons, the more likely it is that an everyday dispute can escalate to lethal force. Social scientists say there is little reliable data one way or another.” Well, no. Ample, widely distributed and utterly reliable statistics show that murder rates are far lower in every other industrial country, and that this correlates closely with the degree of restriction on gun ownership. There is “little reliable data” on the details of guns versus violence in the United States largely because of National Rifle Association-driven restrictions on federal support for research on the subject. However, on the overall question, a huge social science experiment has taken place over the last 50 or so years, and the results are absolutely clear-cut: more guns, more murders. Period.
Ben Carson seems to be blaming the victims, telling Fox News that if he had faced the shooter in Oregon, “I would not just stand there and let him shoot me.” So is Mr. Carson suggesting that the elementary school students at Sandy Hook should have charged the gunman?
