I'm still devastated by the massacre at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Conn.

I'm heartbroken for the families and those children and brave women who died so violently and unnecessarily.

I'm also angered by our gun laws that allow this carnage to happen again and again. We must change things today.

After every mass murder, we hear the same argument: Guns don't kill people; people kill people. But that's not the full picture.

People with guns kill people. Twenty children were shot at close range multiple times with an assault rifle. The killer's mother obtained the weapon legally, and she educated her son on how to handle guns. In essence, she did nothing wrong.

There is no gun law in effect today that would have prevented the killings of those innocent people in Connecticut. But this semiautomatic combat rifle should not have been accessible to the shooter. It should not have been accessible to his mother. It should not be accessible to me or my neighbors.

No everyday citizen, with a regular job, should have access to a weapon that can gun down 26 people in a matter of minutes.

Years of allowing special-interest groups to control government policy is the reason those children are dead. Evil has been allowed to run rampant throughout our country, and more than the sick minds pulling the triggers, I blame the sane lawmakers who support their "right" to do so.

You cannot convince me this is about the freedom to protect yourself and hunt. No one is hunting with guns made for warfare.

I don't want to hear silly arguments like the principal, who was among those killed, should have armed herself and her school. What happens when a 7-year-old finds guns on campus that are there for his protection?

I also don't want to hear that bans on semiautomatic weapons won't stop crime. Those who use this argument insult the intelligence of the American people, as I'm sure no one feels that criminals will suddenly disappear with stricter gun laws.

But we are talking about a specific crime with a specific theme. We're talking mass murders, typically at the hands of young males and often resulting in the suicide of the gunman. These aren't career criminals who will find access to weapons and carry on committing crimes.

These are people in a depressed state who have lost their will to live, are angry inside, want to hurt others and have easy access to killing machines. Let's stop making their fantasies so easy to live out. We have to change our gun laws today.

If the gunman's mother had been able to legally purchase only an ordinary handgun for protection, her son may not have even gotten past her before traveling to that school. I can't imagine he would have been able to shoot his way so quickly through the building's new security system without the help of a weapon that can fire multiple times a second.

That brave principal and school psychologist, who also was killed, could have had some chance to stop the shooter if he had only a handgun. The teachers may not have been rendered helpless to the number and power behind the bullets that struck them as they tried to protect their students.

No, I don't believe the same shooter, without access to a high-powered rifle, could have inflicted lethal wounds to 20 innocent children and killed himself before help arrived.

A person with a gun stole those lives, and we have to change our gun laws. Today.

Credit: Tai Nelson, Special to the Sentinel