Tragedy in Connecticut

Prayers to those affected by the shootings in Connecticut. While the knee-jerk reaction will be to talk about gun control -- and that talk should happen -- what we should also be looking at is the state of our mental-health-care system.

Until mental health is screened and treated like physical health, these types of tragedies will continue. We should be screening for mental health, just like we screen for physical ailments, like high cholesterol and diabetes. And mental-health services simply must be covered by insurance, with providers mandated to accept it.

We don't make fun of people with physical problems; we should move toward a society in which mental health is treated without stigma, and that care needs to be affordable and readily available.

What if we could have diagnosed and treated the shooter before he set out on his rampage? But I know it's just easier to start banning guns, and it's more expensive to attack the problem at its root by finding and treating the people who use those weapons in a sick and twisted manner. And I doubt that will ever change.

Dave Menard Lake Mary

Look at behavior before gun control

I am deeply disturbed by the leaders of our nation when they take advantage of such a tragedy to advance their political agendas. The conversation about the Sandy Hook Elementary School shootings has been turned toward gun control.

Clearly, these people, from the president on down, are attempting to place the blame for this unspeakable tragedy squarely on the shoulders of the lack of gun control. Every firearm needs a human to carry out any action be it for good or for evil.

Instead of finding something to blame for this horrible event, let us look at our own behavior as members of a society that has created a culture of violence and disregard for human life and common decency.

Carlos Thillet Orlando

Parents can help teachers with safety

I am an Orange County Public Schools teacher. It is important that we all join in to keep our children safe.

The schools have drills, and we evacuate and talk with the students about safety. I would like to ask parents to help us by constantly talking to their children and keeping an eye on their social media and cellphone use. It is so easy for them to spread rumors through their phones and videos. We have to tighten the reins and beware of what is happening with children.

The tragedy in Connecticut was horrific. My first response as a teacher is that I must keep my students safe. All school personnel should be aware of suspicious activity.

I cannot imagine such an ordeal. I pray daily for my co-workers and children everywhere, and that gives me peace. If we needed to protect our students, we would. Parents, please do not lose confidence in us. Just help us by staying in tune to what your children are doing, and keep the line of communication open.

Barbara Wright Orlando

Knife vs. gun: A tale of 2 school tragedies

Am I the only one who noticed the incredible coincidence of the article "Man with knife attacks Chinese children; 22 hurt" on the same day as the news of the Connecticut tragedy?

Both happened on the same day and both were committed by mentally disturbed people, but only one was a mass slaying. In China, all the children survived because the perpetrator used a knife. Is there no greater juxtaposition than this to show that guns do kill people? The difference: China has strict gun-control laws.

Meaningful legislation is unlikely to occur because we continue to allow these mass killings to be glossed over as the cost of Second Amendment freedom.

Selene Green Casselberry

Senior advocates

Thanks to the Sentinel for sharing its opinion about the sorry state of assisted living in Florida. Sunday's editorial, "Ideas lack bite to fight assisted-living hazards," hits the mark.

Shame on Gov. Rick Scott and the Florida Assisted Living Workshop for their pitifully passive lack of courage to address -- and fix -- the lamentable treatment of the elderly. Equally shameful is that the panelists who made up the workshop recommended limiting fines to uncorrected low-level citations.

Please keep this topic as a "front page" issue. Florida seniors need more media advocates, such as the Orlando Sentinel.

Eithne Clarke Orlando

Parties kicking can toward the fiscal cliff

Politicians eager to undo spending cuts passed last year have warned that they could send the U.S. over a fiscal cliff. The real fiscal cliff is when the U.S. deficit is unsustainable and collapses the American economy.

Our national debt is expected to be $20 trillion by the end of the decade. The Congressional Budget Office admits the debt is headed toward unsustainable levels. Our future without addressing the problem is that of Greece or Spain, which has near permanent recession and 25 percent unemployment.

These politicians are addicted to spending, and they use your tax dollars to reward their special interests who keep them in power. Both parties use the gimmick of "10-year savings." Congress can allocate funding only one year at a time, and the current Congress wants to keep spending at record levels and tell us that future Congresses will cut spending.

Next year lawmakers will tackle the problem, but next year never comes.

It is no wonder congressional approval ratings are at an all-time low and public apathy for our political system is at an all-time high. Republicans need to accept the U.S. can no longer afford to be the world's policeman, and Democrats need to accept government spending does not help our economy in the long term.

Both sides seem content to kick the can down the road toward the real fiscal cliff, and we the people will suffer the consequences.

Matthew Falconer Windermere