Kudos to Kevin Spear and the Sentinel for documenting the shameful decline of Florida's rivers and springs ("Down by the river" series, which began Sunday).

Unfortunately, the health of these water bodies is testament that the past and current inadequate protection standards have to be substantially improved. Clearly, these jewels have not received the kind of protection and attention that their world-class status deserves.

Nowhere else in the world can such breathtaking resources be found. The blame lies squarely on inaction by our local and state governments, both seemingly paralyzed either from outright neglect or fear about infringing on private-property rights.

In this time of economic recovery, it is of paramount importance that our natural systems, which anchor all economic improvements, are not only protected but restored to their natural, pristine states. The time for timid programs is over.

Our legacy to our children and grandchildren cannot be an inheritance of polluted water courses that are the lifeblood of this great state. We owe it to the country and the world.

Charles Pattison President, 1000 Friends of Florida, Tallahassee

Dialogue not enough, we need leadership

Like many, I cried Friday when I learned about the unimaginable sadness that another community must endure, but I am sure the framers of the Second Amendment did not foresee Americans owning semiautomatic handguns and assault rifles.

The wide availability of guns designed to indiscriminately kill in great numbers and the availability of unregulated ammunition do, in fact, kill people, and 6- and 7-year-olds, too. Nothing changed after shootings at Columbine (Colo.) High School, Virginia Tech or Aurora, Colo., and the reality is that no one on the political spectrum has the courage to speak out about the madness of unleashed guns and what they do to American life. That includes the president, Mitt Romney and Congress.

We have heard the rhetoric, but meaningful dialogue isn't enough. We need strong leadership and immediate action, or we need to steel our hearts to periodic homicidal mayhem, because as much as we try to predict human behavior, it will never be an exact science. Guns can be controlled; people can't.

My heart breaks for the people of Newtown, Conn. I am sorry for their loss. I hope we don't have to grieve for another community any time soon, but that might be too big a Christmas wish.

Beth Jewett Orlando

Stricter gun laws won't stop heinous assaults

I believe my rights under the Second Amendment provide me with the right and responsibility to defend my home, my wife and my family against invaders or other dangers. I am a Christian, a National Rifle Association member and a Democrat. My family comes first after God.

What happened at Sandy Hook Elementary School was terrible and watching it on TV made me cry. That precious children were killed was unbelievable.

Gun laws are not the answer. People still find ways to assault others, as seen in two recent incidents in China, which has strict gun-control laws: On Thursday, a man was arrested after slashing young women on the subway with a box cutter, and on Friday, a man used a knife to hurt 22 children and an 85-year-old woman outside an elementary school.

I do not know what the answer is. Some have mentioned more armed guards at schools. Will that help? Who knows? I know a pastor who carries a concealed weapon. I support that.

Ralph J. Keyes Orlando

Turn unused prisons into mental facilities

The time has come for meaningful policy change by our elected officials in light of the recent massacre in Newtown, Conn.

First, marijuana use should be legalized, and the prisons should be purged of nonviolent users.

Second, we need better safety nets in place to identify and treat mentally ill people.

Finally, those who have been labeled as mentally ill with violent or other antisocial tendencies should be placed in empty prisons that have been turned into mental institutions, for their safety and society's.

All men are most certainly not created equal, and those of us who are stable and law-abiding have every right to expect protection from those who live on the fringes of society.

Joy Stricker Longwood

Teachers are heroes

A reply to Friday's Back Talk question -- Do you believe that 97% of teachers are doing a good job? -- stated that teachers are only interested in their "20-minute union breaks" and are mediocre, at best.

It's ironic that on the same day, the news of the tragic school shootings in Connecticut included many stories of teachers risking, and giving, their lives to protect the children to whom they were dedicated.

That's not mediocrity; that's heroism.

Richard Johnson DeLand

Hatred, not patriotism

I'm a Democrat who voted for Richard Nixon and Ronald Reagan, and I don't consider myself a left-wing ideologue. A major problem with America today is the fanaticism generated by talking heads on talk radio and Fox television.

Listeners are bombarded with hatred camouflaged as patriotism. Hannity, Levin, Boortz, Savage, Coulter, Beck and Limbaugh are among a growing number of "experts" who do more to promote un-Americanism than their liberal counterparts.

Unfortunately, many listeners take the rhetoric as gospel, when the misleading "facts" they spew are based on half-truths, innuendoes and the desire for ratings, self-promotion and financial gain.

Sadly, our nation's problems will continue until a semblance of civility and common sense returns to our national discourse.

Allan F. Solomon Altamonte Springs