I am absolutely horrified by the events that took place Tuesday. As a parent, I am supposed to look for warning signs of trouble in my children, but I also feel I'm supposed to teach my child that all people are different and no person is better than another. Kids can be so cruel with words and teasing, and I don't think they realize the extent of mental anguish that teasing causes. We, as parents, can teach our children that if they have nothing good to say, say nothing at all. Maybe it would help prevent some of this hatred.
It's time that America wakes up; we've been too busy chasing down two BMWs in the garage instead of worrying about our kids' future. I think we need to raise our kids instead of allowing them to exist. We can debate the gun control and all these other issues, but it still comes down to the breakdown of the family and the fact that we are not raising our kids. We are not teaching them to deal with frustrations.
We need fewer guns, not more guns. All the concealed-carry laws should be dropped, and we should have more gun control. The example of what we are doing in Kosovo could be translated by high school kids who might try to act out what they see happening on TV every night.
I'm upset that gun control is the first thing that comes up when parent control should come up. If a person or a high school student is making bombs in his home, a parent should be aware of this. This has nothing to do with gun control; this has to do with parent control. I would like for someone to do research from 10 or 15 years ago when latch-key kids became more common. This is when kids started watching violence; this is when they started practicing violence. And now today those same children are actually acting out the violence.
This is not just a shock for American people; it's also a shock for the whole world. So I hope American people can do something to stop this violence.
Our hearts go out to the Columbine High School families and friends of the students and teachers wounded or killed. We have deep appreciation for the medical teams, law enforcement people and the media. ... My hope is that as citizens, we can make some deeper commitments in tribute to those who have lost their lives. Can we explore together, as youth and adults, how to always be respectful of others and their feelings? Maybe additional ways to be heard and to empower one another with courage. Surely we have not exhausted our creativity and sharing tolerantly, even in public schools, our spiritual values.
How is it possible that no one noticed these Trench Coat Mafia kids and didn't believe that they were dangerous walking around school? Didn't anyone in Columbine notice that their behavior was wrong? In this day of political correctness, authority figures are afraid to teach the difference between right and wrong. So we now tolerate these groups of teens in our schools and explain away their behavior as what? Self-esteem building? Shame on them for not seeing what was coming when this thing first reared its ugly head in their buildings.
We are both deeply saddened and outraged by the events at Columbine High School. We are the parents of a third-year college student and a senior at Denver South High. Given the events of this nationally recognized tragedy, we are hopeful that a peaceful anti-gun rally will assemble during the upcoming NRA visit. We hope that tens of thousands of people who believe that our society can live without weapons of destruction will assemble in honor of our fallen students and send an impressive message to our country and its leaders. Thank you for what you are doing.
Logic says that easy accessibility to guns makes it easier to have tragedies like Columbine. Let's tell our lawmakers to tighten up the laws.
Our prayers and deepest sympathy call out to the students, faculty and families of Columbine High School.
As a grandma, my heart is hurting. All families have been affected by the horrors at Columbine High School. This is a devastation that will not be easy for the young people and you to overcome.
I live about five minutes from Columbine High School. My children go to Jeffco schools. This is a great tragedy. I feel as I know most of us do - very deep anguish and loss over this. It's something we never thought would happen in our community, yet it has. I think it's time for the Jefferson County Board, the superintendents, the people in charge, to make some changes. I've been worried over the open-door policy in my children's school.
