It's horrific that events such as the shootings at Virginia Tech happen, and after the shock of these senseless deaths wears off a bit, there will be cries for more gun control. But there are already laws against murder and laws against guns on the campuses of schools. Where was the law when this disturbed individual started his shooting spree? It's ironic that House Bill 1572 didn't even get through the Virginia House Committee on Militia, Police and Public Safety. The bill would have permitted trained students and teachers to carry concealed firearms on campus. Virginia Tech spokesman Larry Hincker was happy to hear that the bill was defeated "because this will help parents, student, faculty and visitors feel safe on our campus." No, Mr. Hincker, what would have made students, faculty and visitors feel safe would have been the ability to fight back, to defend themselves and their friends. The United States contains an estimated 250 million firearms. They will never be eliminated, nor should they. It's not the weapon that kills; it's the person using it. Just as this gunman used one to destroy lives, a responsible, trained individual lawfully carrying a firearm would have been able to save lives.
Once again, our nation is faced with a senseless tragedy. How do we come to grips when we've become so jaded? But we must feel the grief; to not do so will lessen our humanity. Is it possible to understand? No. So, what lessons can we learn? Notice the little things, enjoy every day, choose happiness, and be empathetic. When is the last time you gave yourself the gift of truly paying attention? I'm going to go hug my kids, and thank God for this beautiful day.
As I agonized over the tragic killings at Virginia Tech, I silently asked myself how soon the "tighter gun-control" fanatics would start their mantra. Well, the bodies of the victims had yet to achieve room temperature when the Register's editorial writers elected to offer gun control as a possible solution. In the April 17 paper, one of the questions asked in the lead editorial was "Should gun control be tighter?" It's not too late to respond to what can only be described as "feel-good" proposed changes in existing laws. Lest we forget, some of the strictest gun laws in the United States are those of Washington, D.C.
The Virginia Tech shooting rampage will unfortunately give some copycat gun enthusiast a new record to aim for. A reasonable person might wonder whether, in the light of this and innumerable similar shootings in the United States, some restrictions on gun and ammunition ownership might be helpful in avoiding recurrences. But no, the National Rifle Association and others will remind us that this would be in violation of the Second Amendment, and that's one of our most treasured legacies from our great 18th century Founding Fathers - the same Founding Fathers who, in their infinite wisdom, decided that black slaves were three-fifths of a person.
It's a horrible tragedy at Virginia Tech, but it's day-to-day life in Iraq, and both make no sense at all.
Our culture of violence toward people comes through in music, books, video games, movies, the Iraq war, divorce, theft, illegal immigration and lying on our income taxes. Then, we are surprised when the tragedy of Virginia Tech takes place. When we eliminate God from our lives, the animalistic behavior that lies within each of us is allowed to come out in all its destructive fury. Don't be surprised; it will only get worse.
The tragedy at Virginia Tech has been described as the deadliest shooting in U.S. history. This is not true. Three days after Christmas in 1890, U.S. troops, some from Gen. Custer's old command, slaughtered 153 Native Americans at Wounded Knee on the Pine Ridge Reservation in South Dakota. Many of the Native American women were shot to death while still holding their babies in their arms.
