Since political action to ban private ownership of guns has proved impossible, we must take legal action to recover the costs that society incurs because of guns. These costs include the increased salaries, equipment and administration required by larger police forces, more emergency room and general medical services, and larger funeral expenses. The costs also include time missed from work because of injury caused by guns. Many perpetrators of gun-related violence would otherwise have only been in a minor scrap. So we must include expenses caused by the trials and incarceration of killers, social aid to their families and their lost productive capacity. The people who must pay these costs are the people who manufacture, promote, lobby for and buy guns.
I am worried about the idea of focusing on students who are different as potential troublemakers. I felt a profound sense of loneliness during my high school and early college years. I was not a good athlete. I was gawky. I responded to this awkward adolescence by seeking out others like myself. We listened to brooding music, became fascinated with computers, discussed literature and poetry, wore earrings and, yes, we also wore black overcoats to school. To single out those who feel disconnected and alienated from a suburban culture obsessed with athletic prowess and J. Crew conformity as potentially dangerous is disturbing. Most of my friends from these younger days are now in careers that value and reward being different -- writers, entrepreneurs, artists and designers. Some of us even grow up to be professors.
The gunmen at Columbine High School (front page, April 23) were reportedly in a rage after being dismissed and tormented by ''jocks.'' I was an outcast at their age, poorer and not as athletic as most of my classmates. I was taunted and beaten. Hurt, angry and lonely, I found solace in knowing that after graduation my life would not include daily interaction with my tormentors. My father, despite his income, gave me the security of knowing that if I studied hard, my future would include people and places of my own choosing. I had access to a gun but reached for college catalogues. I support stronger gun control, but it will never substitute for parental encouragement that there is life after high school.
In the wake of the tragedy at Columbine High School in Littleton, Colo. (front page, April 23), many commentators have made the point that overall rates for youth homicide have declined. Their larger point is that Littleton and other recent school shootings should not be interpreted as a critical increase in violence among youth. I suggest that the recent killings represent an increase in violence of a qualitatively different type. Past homicide statistics were inflated by turf battles among gangs, which is violence in the service of a particular social subculture. These more recent attacks represent a violent rebellion against the social order as a whole -- attacks on the socially successful by socially rejected children. While it is obvious that we must remove guns from the hands of children, we must also address the issue of what happens to the losers in a competitive society that values only winners.
As to whether school massacres like the tragedy in Littleton, Colo., arise from easy access to guns or from the influence of a violent media (front page, April 23), we need only remember the extreme violence of media and computer games in Japan and Hong Kong and the low incidence of random violence in these places. In those parts of East Asia, the distinction between fantasy and reality is firmly in place -- and secured by the illegality of handguns. In the United States, the distinction is erased because the very weapons that permeate the media world of fantasy violence are readily available. Until firm restrictions on gun acquisition and ownership are put in place, these two worlds will draw closer and closer together.
