The news of the elementary-school shooting in Connecticut just cut me to the core as I realized that of at least 26 dead, most were children. I don't remember a time growing up, as I skipped off to school, that my parents had to discuss with me the need to run away from school if a gunman should enter my school and start shooting randomly. I would not have even known what the word "random" meant. How do you caress a child's face in your hands in the morning, kiss him goodbye and think for one minute he would become a statistic? I cannot begin to fathom the chaotic emotions of parents who are notified of a gunman at their children's school. How do you even think? How do you even drive to the school with thoughts in your head that your child may not be alive? These innocent babies struck down and traumatically scarred by a gunman who did not have any regard for life. Kids play ball, play games, play with their Barbies, embrace their dolls, ride bikes and just focus on getting to the next day. It makes the issues of forgetting homework, forgetting lunches, morning preschool chaos and sibling rivalry all seem so trivial. Embrace your children and hold them tight. Don't let go of that morning hug too soon. God bless the victims, and God protect our children.
The National Rifle Association can put out all the constitutional arguments it wants, but if the organization doesn't help find an effective way to stop random gun violence, it's going to lose the gun-control argument. At least 26 dead at an elementary school is hard to counter with a Second Amendment defense. The NRA can either help or lose. I'm in the NRA, but I have limits. We call upon the president to set this right. We call upon former President George W. Bush to use his "good ol' boy" persona to lead in changing gun laws. We call upon every concerned citizen to protest the National Rifle Association gun lobby. Our laws are enabling these tragedies. Can we prevent tragedies? No. Can we lower the odds? Yes. A third-grade girl said it "makes you have a tummy ache." I have one, too, and an ache in my heart.
The tragedy that unfolded Friday was so disturbing, and my prayers go out to the families and their community. This has been one of the most violent of years that I can recall, specifically involving children. They are more disconnected both physically and spiritually than ever before, fighting their battles on Twitter and Facebook, and they have no real ability to navigate relationships in their lives. And what they are constantly connected to is increasingly violent. One of the most successful book series of 2012 blatantly celebrated violence between children, to the point of murder. It was read by thousands of children. As a country, as a community, as a family and a friend, we have a lot to think about.
The facts were still unknown Friday when liberals and Democrats were already calling for more strict gun control and outright gun bans. The answer to this problem is not so simple. While this is a terrible tragedy, it's not the gun that by itself walks out of the drawer and starts shooting people. It's the person who is behind it pulling the trigger. A real solution that would go a long way is to place trained, armed security guards in plain clothes at the schools. At least there would be someone to stop a shooting right away. Yes, it would cost money, but how much are our children worth? Gun control or banning guns from law-abiding people would only disarm the law-abiding and leave the criminals and mentally ill armed.
Are we willing to look at our nation and see what we have become? Another mass killing occurred on Friday. Multiple deaths and injuries at an elementary school, as some man barely out of childhood himself uses guns to kill innocent children and adults, and then apparently kills himself. And the mass shootings are nothing in number compared with the individual deaths and injuries guns are responsible for day by day. Guns and violence. We celebrate it in our movies, and exhaust our treasury and our young military personnel and our emotions in more than 10 years of undeclared, unnecessary wars. We use our drones and bombs and missiles and snipers in distant lands to kill enemy suspects (no trials, no hearings, no legal proceedings). For years, we accepted torture and incarceration without trial as the norm. We are a land drunk on violence, unable to have a serious debate about gun control, thanks to the power of the NRA and like-minded citizens on our cowardly Congress and other leaders. The dream we have had of America for so long is fading in the face of these ugly realities. We, the people, need to cry out for truth, not propaganda; for answers, not excuses. We need to speak out to our government representatives for substantive gun control. And to rediscover diplomacy in foreign policy instead of depending upon brute force. We need to become the nation we all deserve, and need, and long for. Under God.
