When I was a boy, I remember reading how the National Rifle Association offered courses in gun safety for hunters. That seemed wise. Tragically, the question today is when did the NRA become the shill for gun manufacturers, for gun shows, for the sale of assault weapons? I served in the Army. I was trained on the M1 rifle and the Browning automatic rifle, the only function of which was killing people in combat. The M-16, which came after my training, is the same: Its only function is killing people in warfare. The same is true of automatic pistols. The police should not have to face superior arms when they face down criminals, but too often they do. No one in civilian life should have to face anyone with an assault weapon. Hunters use rifles appropriate to the game they pursue. Target shooters use weapons appropriate to target ranges. Assault weapons are for killing people. The leadership of the NRA and the politicians in their pay should be ashamed. No, the NRA did not create criminal conduct. But its distorted, invalid, deliberate interpretation of the constitutional amendment that allows for bearing arms -- since at the time there was no "well-regulated militia" -- is very much a part of the problem. Perhaps a million of us folks who advocate gun control of assault weapons should join the NRA and change the organization's thinking. What would the gun manufacturers think about that?
In view of the recent horrific school shooting in Connecticut, I have a suggestion: We have hundreds of thousands of retired military and law-enforcement personnel throughout our country. How many would be willing to join a volunteer group to patrol schools as armed patrol officers, after a training class in firearm safety and mental testing? I would be the first in line to join. A volunteer group wouldn't cost anything and could save numerous lives. Although it may not stop school shootings, it might make the shooter think twice. It only takes one man with one gun to take out a killer.
Every time there is a massacre, we hear our leaders bring up gun control. And even our president becomes a point man for this issue, but more thought suggests a complete misunderstanding of the issues behind the Sandy Hook Elementary School massacre and similar massacres of innocent people. The core problem, it seems, is how do members of society get so confused, so screwed up and so filled with hatred that they want to kill innocent people? Just what is going on in their minds? How do they reach this point? Why do they reach this point? Their method of killing, be it bombs, an explosive vest, semiautomatic weapons, or whatever, is of secondary concern. Hence, if we really wanted to try to get to the bottom of the problem, the right individual to spearhead an investigation of national, and perhaps international, incidents involving mass murders of innocents, would be one with a background in sociology, psychology and/or neuroscience -- someone with an understanding of what makes people tick. Being skilled in the essence of the kill would be of lesser importance. 
