I am a retired Orange County teacher and have been through numerous lockdowns. Typically, the belief is that the way to stop deranged gunmen is to make sure they can't get firearms in the first place. But how is somebody identified as deranged before he commits a horrendous act? The impression is that by beefing up security, we would make the schools appear to be a fortress. That is not true. I am an Exceptional Student Education teacher, and I worked at the toughest and safest school in Orange County. Why safest? Because we had security and video monitors in the hallways. Our resource officers interacted with the students and were looked at as part of the staff. There was always a deputy's car parked out front where it could be seen by everyone. I have also worked at a school that required students to go through metal detectors. When classes began, no outsiders came on campus unless they were let in through a locked metal door. Parents liked knowing their children were in a safe environment. The answer to making our schools safer is to keep the schools from being a target. If you make the target much less inviting, you make the target safer.
When I was a kid, we played cowboys and Indians and cops and robbers. These fantasies were a product of Hollywood filmmakers. None of us, from my memory, carried out the acts we saw in the movies because we knew it was not real. We knew right from wrong, and if we did something wrong, we would get our britches tanned. Nowadays Hollywood produces video games glorifying murder and mayhem. There is a strain of mental instability running through our culture, and it is illustrated by youngsters who carry out violent acts. In my day, it was said that children should be seen and not heard. Today, it is the opposite, where children are placed on a pedestal and given equal voice in life's decisions. They are offered counseling for almost any situation that develops. Kids know they can call the police if Mom or Dad paddles them. It's no wonder the flaws in their character grow. That raises the question of what or who is responsible for extreme acts in our culture today? Does the availability of a gun cause someone to go berserk and act out something he saw in a video game? Does the coddling of children nurture instability traits that a good spanking would correct? The Sandy Hook killings can be traced back to the mother who bought the weapons and taught her unstable son how to use them.
