In Cynthia Tucker's latest screed against firearms and the Second Amendment, she asserts that since trained police officers can only hit their targets 40 percent of the time, then there is no point in responsible individuals taking ownership of their personal safety ("Pushing guns for all students a cartoonish idea," April 22). Tucker also gives the rather low number of "justifiable homicides" to bolster her argument, but fails to address the fact that oftentimes just the show of force will cause a potential mugger or burglar to think twice. These victim near-misses go unreported. But let's assume that Tucker is right in her assertion about untrained gun owners, and that they would only be able to hit their intended target 10 percent of the time. Most people with even a smidgen of common sense would think that even a 1 percent chance of survival is better than none, zip, zero, nada.
Sure, the Virginia Tech attack would have played differently had everyone been packing. When everyone is armed, the consequences will be much like traffic here in Atlanta ... an accident at every intersection, some minor and some head-on collisions. (I ride public transportation and avoid the gridlock on the streets.) More guns simply mean more shootings; there is no way around that. One need only look to the violence where everyone is armed to see the consequences. The weapons escalate to higher, more deadly, means. The resulting bombings will be the attacks for which firearms are of little defense.
The Virginia Tech massacre confirms my belief that we are reaping what we have sowed over past years. As a recently retired high school counselor, I can honestly say we are sending more students to postsecondary education with emotional issues. I have experienced serving students with serious mental health issues such as bipolar disorder and schizophrenia. In our zeal to stress academics, we have overlooked the total development of the child by ignoring the emotional needs of the child. Let me cite a few examples of educational policies that I feel need to be addressed as direct causes of depression, anxiety, low self-esteem and violence. • Elimination of recess • Standardized testing with negative consequences, k-12 • Reduced funding for physical education, music, art activities • No Pass, No Play • Abusive use of Zero Tolerance • No Child Left Behind
