Focus on shooters
In "Time to limit the access to firearm" (Letters, Oct. 8) the writer explains how society can be made safe from gun violence if only we limit the number of guns an individuals can own, and add rigorous background checks. Limited and often inconsistent evidence supports these positions. Perhaps effective solutions to the carnage wrought by guns aren't nearly so simplistic as just limiting access. I remember a time when society had no gun control and these sorts of incidents were almost unknown. After all, the writer suggests a scheme that attacks the problem by dealing with the criminal's weapon rather than the criminal. This is similar to a society trying to control drivers who like to run down pedestrians by controlling the access of all drivers to cars. How about laws that make it a bit less difficult for doctors to involuntarily commit patients? Or laws that make anyone financially liable for aiding and/or failing to report another person they suspect capable of imminent criminality? In memory of the Umpqua students, I suggest that our laws concentrate on the shooters rather than their guns.
Daniel Mauthe, Livermore
Buy back guns
"Time to limit the access to firearms" (Letters, Oct. 7) is excellent as far as it goes. Nonetheless, it doesn't go far enough. The truth that far too many still don't want to face is that civilized societies and guns don't go well together. As unthinkable as it is, its time to consider what Australia did after experiencing just one horrendous mass shooting; a massive government program to buy back as many guns as possible and thus get guns out of Australian society. How many more mass shootings will it take to convince us that we cannot have a safe society and still have the numbers of guns that we do? It's time to get past the endless and meaningless distinctions between good and bad guys. The sheer number of guns is literally killing us no matter whose hands they are in.
Ian Mitroff, Oakland
Gun training
The NRA has found itself boxed into a corner; in its extreme zeal of no gun control, it must now defend the right to bear arms to the mentally ill. I believe our national conversation should include firearms regulation, similar to automobiles. You are trained by a certified instructor, practice with a licensed operator, given written and practical tests, renewed every few years, etc. These type of reasonable regulations allow any capable citizen their rights and protect the population at large, as best as possible, while ensuring against unqualified operators.
Tom Rudolph, Brisbane
