The recent tragic events have left the people of America asking a great many questions. Some question the gun laws; some question college security procedures; some question the point at which it is appropriate to incarcerate the disturbed; some question the use of medications; and on, and on.  I have a different question. There is no way to minimize the scope of the tragedy at Virginia Tech. There is no consolation for those who have lost their children and their friends, nor is there consolation for the parents whose child brought about such misery.  And there is no way to measure the value of the lives that were lost. But there were other lives lost that same week, in tragedies of equal scope, and human beings of equally immeasurable value are gone. Yet, the news all but ignored those lives. Why?  Two hundred people lost their lives in Baghdad in a string of bombings on a single day. These were men, women and children -- children who could have grown up to be as bright, kind and beautiful as the lost students of Virginia Tech.  These 200 people will get no candlelight vigil, no sympathetic words from the president, no examination from talking heads about what might have prevented the tragedy. They seem to have no one to speak for them here, and our journalists and reporters seem content to let them be forgotten. How irresponsible has our media become that they pick and choose the value of human life?
The whole country mourned those lost at Virginia Tech, so much so that the American flag was flying at half-staff across the country. Very recently we saw the flag flying at half-staff to recognize the passing of Gerald Ford. In the past couple of years, I've seen flags flying at half-staff to recognize the passing of Coretta Scott King and Rosa Parks.  I wonder why we don't fly the flag at half-staff for every American who loses his or her life in the service of our country in the war in Iraq?  Those Americans losing their lives serving our country are true American heroes. We should recognize those losses just as we recognize those losses that make the evening news. My husband says that if we flew the flag at half-staff for every soldier who loses his life in service of our country, the flag would always be at half-staff. Perhaps that is as it should be. I would like to see our country recognize those Americans who make the ultimate sacrifice.  Perhaps the flag will fly at half-staff for some time. But we can all rejoice when there are no deaths of American heroes to commemorate, and our flag can once again fly high and proud.
