Could we please settle this right now? More gun-control laws are not necessary. Laws affect only those willing to obey them. Criminals and the mentally unstable will not be hindered by more legislation. Millions of gun owners and retailers peacefully and dutifully follow the rules daily. Please take that into consideration. Emotions run high on this issue, but logic should prevail. In the wake of the Virginia Tech shootings, Florida legislators denied the law-abiding public the right to defend themselves by prohibiting guns at work. These same people allow me the right to carry a concealed weapon. Again, emotion overrides logic. Enforce the laws we already have. Enable cooperation between law enforcement and the medical community for thorough background checks. Ensure swift punishment for those willing to break the law by holding them responsible for their actions.
Once again, as the result of a horrific crime, the gun has become the major topic of debate. The anti-gun advocates always take the opportunity to seize what they perceive is an advantage to capitalize on a tragedy in which a gun is involved. The general public is susceptible because of the shock over the senseless brutality of the event. What has to follow, of course, is the pro-Second Amendment crowd committed to its defense. Hence the debate continues. One of our problems is that most God-fearing, law-abiding citizens cannot fathom such brutal acts of another human being with a gun. It's nice to live in a dream world, but our eyes have to be open to the fact that there is evil in this world, and no matter how many laws we pass or how hard we try, there will always be evil. All you have to do is watch the TV news or read the morning paper. It's difficult to credit Hollywood with anything nowadays, but years ago, during the era of cowboy Westerns, there were bad guys and good guys. Of course, the good guys always won because of the great equalizer: the gun. The guys wearing black hats were always better with the gun, but the guys with white hats were not helpless and still had a fighting chance. The moral of those stories is still true today: We do not want to create laws where there are no white hats with guns. It would be a much more fearful place if the only guns were in the hands of black hats. If there had been a couple of white hats at Virginia Tech, would the body count have been as high as it was? One really has to wonder.
When Jimmy the Greek, Sen. Trent Lott and, most recently, Don Imus uttered derogatory and hurtful words, the general public properly chastised them. However, what we did not hear were calls to restrict the First Amendment. Now compare that to the Virginia Tech shooting. Even before we were able to grasp the enormity of this tragedy, gun-control advocates were calling for Second Amendment restrictions. This is also true in the other mass shootings that have occurred in the past. I am sure they would argue that guns kill and words cannot, but that too is wrong, especially when you consider that words probably provoked the situation that spurred the gun violence. Blaming either one would be wrong though, since both are harmless unless you have a person who intends to do harm. What this boils down to is protecting the entire U.S. Constitution. An abundance of caution should be used when it comes to restrictions or changes, even if it is an article you do not like. One day someone may try to change an article you do care about, but by then it may be too late.
