RIGHT ON POINT
Editor -- Congratulations to Kevin Fagan for his excellent piece ("A Story That Shook the Senses," April 30). For years I have enjoyed his earthquake-related reporting for its accuracy and detail. This article on his feelings as a journalist covering the Columbine massacre spoke in a different, powerful way.
Mr. Fagan eloquently expressed what so many pontificating pundits have tried in vain to say about Columbine. Explanation of the resilient nature of human evil defies the multitude of suspected influences, "each a little right," each insufficient to explain "what has gone wrong in our American world."
I am reminded of what Hannah Arendt wrote regarding another mass murderer, Adolph Eichmann. The most shocking thing about evil -- in Nazi Germany or suburban America -- is how banal and common it seems.
S. FINNERTY NEWTON
Castro Valley
.
GUN CONTROL FOLLY
Editor -- Do we really want to live in a country where only the government has firearms? More gun control will only criminalize law abiding citizens, it won't prevent another Littleton.
HILARY SMITH
Petaluma
.
DIRECTING OUR ANGER
Editor -- Once again we are a nation captivated by horror. So many dead so senselessly. Would it have made a difference if there had been some recognizable reason for two teenagers to kill and kill and kill?
Not really. Dead is dead. It doesn't matter if there was a "cause." Dead is dead. Murder is murder. Blame belongs to those two greedy, egocentric killers . . . and anyone else who helped construct the bombs, sold the guns, bought the guns, kept quiet. In the end it was -- two killers.
At some point they made a choice, an evil choice. Are others culpable? Probably. But in the end it was them, the killers, firing the guns.
We should all be angry, screaming, gut-wrenching angry -- at them, at those who allow their greed to keep permitting guns, handguns, shotguns, rifles, automatic weapons, any and all things which are specifically made to shoot someone or something. Gun control? Try gun elimination. Target shooters can find some other way to get their jollies.
Anger, not feel-good mourning. Mourning is for those it happened to, the families and friends, not anyone else. Mourn our greed. Be angry enough to eliminate the instruments of death.
KATHRYN MURDOCK
El Granada
.
REQUIRED READING
Editor -- Your exceedingly well crafted, carefully reasoned editorial ("The Lessons of Littleton," May 2) deserves an award.
Furthermore, by conspicuously avoiding simplistic explanations for this tragedy, by rebuking the National Rifle Association for its intransigent stand against any regulation of the purchase of firearms and by making a much needed call for citizen action to help curtail the culture of violence, the editorial should be made required reading for congressional and state legislators and anyone who was anguished by this tragic, inexcusable loss of promising human life.
CY SHAIN
San Francisco
.
DON'T TARGET GUNS
Editor -- In the opening sentence of your editorial, "The Lessons of Littleton," you say that "It remains way too early to apportion blame with any degree of certainty for what went wrong at Columbine High School on April 20, 1999," and yet you lost no time urging Americans to "rise up against the gun lobby, particularly the powerful National Rifle Association, which scoffs at even the most reasonable of restrictions." Sounds like blame to me.
All firearms were "instruments of war" at one time. Would it have made any difference if the "98 pound weakling" in Tom Meyer's despicable cartoon had shot the bully with a revolver instead of a TEC-DC9? And shouldn't the last panel of the cartoon have shown the killer being led away in handcuffs like he would have been if real life?
Incidentally, I read (in your pa per) that one of the shooters in Colorado was being treated with an antidepressant. You don't think he might have mental problems, do you?
MATT BEAR
Petaluma
