LESSONS OF LITTLETON
Editor -- Your editorial, "The Lessons of Littleton," (May 2), provided the best response I've seen so far in the aftermath of this tragedy. Thank you for pointing out that young people die from gun violence every day, and that the answers are never simple. America will only begin to heal itself when people take the path you suggest.
Who's to blame for Littleton? I am, partly. Everyone reading this letter, to some extent. No matter how much we think we're doing the right thing, everyone must get more involved. Share more in your children's lives, and get involved in schools and school districts. Get involved politically, and hold our elected officials responsible for the availability and quality of school services, and the reduction of violence. We must realize also that our dollars count more than our voices in the entertainment field. Hollywood keeps trotting out recycled plots and gun-laden films because people keep paying to see the same old thing.
Likewise, video-game violence will only decline when we stop buying this virtual carnage.
The buck stops here. I accept my share in this national crisis. I'm making better choices, and I'm going to raise my voice more frequently. Fellow readers, what are you doing to improve the situation?
DAVID B. COHEN
Redwood City
.
A MISSING LAWMAKER
Editor -- We are all mourning the terrible shootings that took place in Littleton, Colo., last week.
Several days after that tragedy, the state Assembly voted on a bill to limit handgun sales in California to one per month. Our local Assemblywoman, Lynne Leach, was present but did not vote.
Aren't we paying her to represent our interests? How could she possibly be there and abstain from voting in favor of this bill when our children's lives are at stake?
CHRISTINE McGINNIS
Danville
.
MEDIA GLORIFICATION
Editor -- I have spent the last 33 years counseling teenagers and young children in San Francisco. The killing spree that occurred at Columbine High School last week is weighing on my mind. I beseech you to make it clear to your audiences that the coverage of this event is not intended to glorify the acts of the two teenagers.
Eric Harris and Dylan Klebold should be described as pathetic and highly disturbed kids. I encourage your reporters to openly show strong disapproval for the murderers. By describing the boys as pitiful and rare, we can take away any awe that may be inspired in other teens by their acts. These teens are seeking omnipotent notoriety to fill the emptiness of their lives.
Let's ensure that this killing spree remains a rare occurrence by putting these two boys in their rightful place.
HARRY Z. COREN, M.D.
S.F. Psychoanalytic Institute
San Francisco
.
RIGHT TO BEAR ARMS?
Editor -- I am absolutely sure that the horror at Littleton was not what the founding fathers had in mind when they guaranteed the constitutional right to bear arms. What takes higher precedent -- someone's right to bear arms or the 13 victims' right to life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness? Somehow our country has to come to grips with the fact that children have guns and are using them to kill others.
ANNE SMITH
Berkeley
.
DEADLY AMMUNITION
Editor -- The recent debate about gun violence overlooks an important point: It is the ammunition, not the guns, that cause injury and death.
Without the high-speed, steel jacketed pieces of lead that spit out of the business end of the barrel, a gun is nothing but a very clumsy blunt instrument.
Therefore I propose a national ban on the sale of all handgun ammunition. This would not make it illegal to own handgun ammo, thus avoiding the legal mess of confiscating the hundreds of millions of rounds already owned by citizens and criminals alike. Instead it would cut off the flow of new handgun ammunition by imposing stiff penalties for those who smuggle or sell handgun ammo.
This ban would side-step the thorny issue of gun ownership, but would address the growing problem of gun violence in our country.
AARON BUCHANAN
San Leandro
.
STACK THE DECK
Editor -- To everyone who can't stomach the policies of the National Rifle Association, I say if you can't beat them, join them. The NRA is, presumably, a democratic organization that reflects the views of its members.
BILL LEVINSON
Oakland
.
DANGEROUS OPTIONS
Editor -- Taking guns from Americans will not cure the epidemic of teen deaths. Every two hours one American teen is lost to suicide. Few people are willing to acknowledge how cruel and painful life in public schools can be. Eric Harris and Dylan Klebold chose the route of suicide but wanted to make a statement before they left.
If there were no guns in America they would have used more pipe bombs, started a massive fire,or perhaps poisoned the cafeteria food. Eliminating guns will only prompt more creative solutions for the expression of the emotions which are drowning our youth. Until we learn to understand, accept, include,involve, and cherish our teens they will continue to kill themselves and those who degrade and torment them.
Championing gun control is another way people avoid facing the true problem of interpersonal relationships in our schools, families, and communities.
TRAVIS JORDAN
Berkeley
