Editor's note: On Wednesday, Colorado legislators, with Gov. Bill Owens' support, appeared to have agreed that the three gun bills still pending before them will not move forward this session. Arm the good guys

The bad guys will always have guns, knives, bombs, etc., and they have little to fear from the good guys, because the good guys are not armed.

Trying to disarm the bad guys is an exercise in futility. The only practical solution is for more good guys to be armed. J.W. PHELPS

Aurora

Little resistance

I like hundreds of thousands of Coloradans, am stunned speechless, looking for some way to respond to Tuesday's heartbreaking nightmare.

In recent months, I have stood by with disbelief and inaction as the concealed-weapons bill moved seemingly effortlessly through the general assembly, wondering how is it that a piece of legislation with absolutely no redeeming value could encounter so little resistance.

I know with such certainty that violence begets violence - that there are only a very few exceptional and legitimate reasons to own a gun, that only those entrusted with safeguarding the public welfare or those with a very good and demonstrable reason should have the right to bear arms. We simply live in a different time than that in which the "right to bear arms" was even a relevant concept. Every day that passes provides irrefutable evidence that we need stronger gun control laws.

PARRY W. BURNAP

Denver

Root of the problem

While watching television coverage of the Columbine tragedy, I heard people discuss what should be done to stop this from happening again. Not once did anyone mention banning guns. Wake up America. As long as you have guns you will never get rid of violence. Of course, violence on TV and the Internet needs to be removed, but guns are at the root of the problem. The answer is not to arm yourself against other guns but to disarm the whole nation.

Why doesn't Europe have as high a crime rate as America? Simply because guns are not a right, and are not something that anyone wants. They look at America with disgust for the sick society it has become.

American's rights as citizens to live peaceably should override their rights to own a gun. ROSALIE MCDOWELL

Denver

Self-defense

Why is tragedy required to show the fatal stupidity of preventing law-abiding teachers, parents, or visitors from carrying concealed weapons in school? Imagine how many lives could be saved if just 5 percent of responsible adults in schools carried concealed weapons. No place should be denied the protection of the Bill of Rights without a very good reason. Any place so denied becomes a choice, vulnerable, easy crime target.

In two similar recent school tragedies, the killing stopped only after civilian weapons were aimed at the real killers, long before the police arrived. Our government is an accomplice in every preventable murder allowed by the constitutionally illegal denial of the right to tools of self-defense. Tragedy can happen anywhere, anytime. Be aware, be prepared, and don't ignore a year's worth of threats, as was done in most of the recent school tragedies. ROBERT PATLOVANY

Westminster

A different situation

Doug Dean must be prophet. Tuesday's tragedy could have been minimized if a teacher or principal had been carrying a concealed weapon. Please call the governor and your legislator and tell them you want teachers and principals to be allowed to carry concealed weapons.

Ask any of the parents of the children involved, and they will tell you that they would have given anything to have had a teacher or principal carrying a concealed weapon. Ask any of the teachers or principal involved, and they will tell you that they would have given anything to have had a concealed weapon on their person. RICH JOHNSON

Castle Rock

Security in schools

I certainly hope officials will think about the concealed weapons laws now. This is probably the start of things to come. Parents will be afraid to send their kids to school now. I know I will be. They ought to think about getting security in the schools for the staff and kids. Hopefully, Gov. Bill Owens will think twice about passing gun laws. If I was a child I wouldn't even go to school. I would stay home and be home schooled. If they pass this law it will just be open season on anyone. ANN SANDERS

Denver

Caring about kids

The legislators (and presumably the governor) believe it is a great idea to allow concealed weapons. Are any of them watching the TV news right now? Are any of them parents of those kids shot at Columbine High? To legislators who voted in favor of concealed weapons: What do you plan to tell the parents of those innocent kids shot today?

It is interesting that Colorado legislators want to be able to tell the federal government that they are experts at, specifically, what endangered species can be introduced into Colorado on federal land, yet deny local governments the same authority with regard to regulating firearms.

However, the legislators do not want concealed weapons in the state Capitol. So, weapons are OK everywhere else? Will it be OK to have weapons in supermarket parking lots and schools? If anyone cares about our Colorado kids, he or she will demand that legislators re-think this legislation and Governor Owens vetos the concealed weapons bill. KATHY GLATZ

Denver

Right-to-carry laws

While Colorado's Legislature debates "right to carry" legislation, a tragedy occurred in Littleton that may have been prevented if there had been a few teachers carrying firearms. It is sad that our society has deteriorated to the point that in order to make it safe again, we must be armed. "Right-to-carry" laws have worked all over the country in reducing crime.

It might have worked at Columbine High School, too. BILL PADILLA

Cheyenne,

Arm the teachers

Before legislators get on your soapbox and tell the world this killing would not have happened if all guns were outlawed, bear in mind that the two attackers used homemade grenades/pipe bombs, also illegal under local and federal law. The laws against destructive devices didn't stop these two from making and using these devices and laws making all arms illegal wouldn't have stopped them from making or stealing arms.

Think about what might have happened if the teachers had been armed, and trained in the use of those arms, and would have been able and willing to protect their students by fighting back at these two killers instead of hiding in closets.

Of course, that assumes that our leaders have the moral courage to allow this to happen.

I believe that the student's lives were worth protecting.

Allowing law-abiding citizens the right to carry arms anywhere probably would not prevent a similar incident but would definitely reduce the number of victims and increase the number of killers who die while trying to kill others for whatever sick reason.

Semi-automatic shotguns, rifles and pistols are not automatic weapons. Please stick to the facts and educate your people. STEPHEN E. BROWN

Trinidad

Colorado Springs

Case closed

The frightful tragedy at Columbine High School should settle for once and all the question whether mature and law-abiding teachers and school administrators should be allowed the means to protect themselves and their students. It would appear that the original Musgrave gun carry law is closest to right. Restrict them from bars and let it go at that. WALLACE L. VANDER JAGT

Denver




