Teasing can be cruel

I am absolutely horrified by the events that took place Tuesday. As a parent, I am supposed to look for warning signs of trouble in my children, but I also feel I'm supposed to teach my child that all people are different and no person is better than another. Kids can be so cruel with words and teasing, and I don't think they realize the extent of mental anguish that teasing causes. We, as parents, can teach our children that if they have nothing good to say, say nothing at all. Maybe it would help prevent some of this hatred. SHARON SEEMANN,

Littleton

Breakdown of the family

It's time that America wakes up; we've been too busy chasing down two BMWs in the garage instead of worrying about our kids' future. I think we need to raise our kids instead of allowing them to exist. We can debate the gun control and all these other issues, but it still comes down to the breakdown of the family and the fact that we are not raising our kids. We are not teaching them to deal with frustrations. DAN RYHAL,

Golden

Less, not more, guns

We need fewer guns, not more guns. All the concealed-carry laws should be dropped, and we should have more gun control. The example of what we are doing in Kosovo could be translated by high school kids who might try to act out what they see happening on TV every night. JOE STERN

Parent control first

I'm upset that gun control is the first thing that comes up when parent control should come up. If a person or a high school student is making bombs in his home, a parent should be aware of this. This has nothing to do with gun control; this has to do with parent control. I would like for someone to do research from 10 or 15 years ago when latch-key kids became more common. This is when kids started watching violence; this is when they started practicing violence. And now today those same children are actually acting out the violence. DIANE ROBERSON,

Gettson, Ala.

Shock for whole world

This is not just a shock for American people; it's also a shock for the whole world. So I hope American people can do something to stop this violence. THANG NGUYEN

Becoming an outlaw state

What Dean, Owens, Chlouber and other legislators failed to understand is that their concealed weapons initiative sends a message: It's OK to take the law into your own hands. Their bill will turn Colorado into an outlaw state. Thank you. HOWARD L. MORTON,

Pine Junction

Guns only kill

There have always been angry, hateful young men. They have not always had ready access to guns as they do today. Guns will never keep us safe; guns only kill. It is time for average citizens who want life to go on to take action, to purge our society of guns. REBECCA PHILLIPS,

Littleton

Price of silence high

The price of silence has now become too high. For too long we have been silent while we watch those who are more passionate and more vocal. The NRA has backed itself into extremist positions even though it is mostly good and decent folks. We have just sat back and listened without responding. We must now stand up and respond. Our silence must no longer continue; we must become as vocal and as passionate as they have in the cause of stopping the spread of guns and violence. JOHN R. PHILLIPS,

Being different

My classmates when I went to a country school in Texas all ganged up on me and beat me because I was different. These were the "A' students, the so-called jocks; they did not like me because I was a new student. Plus, my skin color was different. They called me everything under the sun just because my skin was darker than theirs. CHARLES KONAMOCO

Respect others' feelings

Our hearts go out to the Columbine High School families and friends of the students and teachers wounded or killed. We have deep appreciation for the medical teams, law enforcement people and the media. ... My hope is that as citizens, we can make some deeper commitments in tribute to those who have lost their lives. Can we explore together, as youth and adults, how to always be respectful of others and their feelings? Maybe additional ways to be heard and to empower one another with courage.Surely we have not exhausted our creativity and sharing tolerantly, even in public schools, our spiritual values. REV. BILL BOWLES, administrator

Lakewood Christian Church

Where are the parents?

Where are the parents of these two boys in all of this? MARY MITCHELL,

Golden

Give kids time and love

God promises to bless anyone who will follow his ways. Our land and our people need to be healed. So let's give our kids our time and our love and not be so focused on our monetary successes. JULIE ZGORZYNSKI,

Aurora

Wrong behavior

How is it possible that no one noticed these Trench Coat Mafia kids and didn't believe that they were dangerous walking around school? Didn't anyone in Columbine notice that their behavior was wrong? In this day of political correctness, authority figures are afraid to teach the difference between right and wrong. So we now tolerate these groups of teens in our schools and explain away their behavior as what? Self-esteem building? Shame on them for not seeing what was coming when this thing first reared its ugly head in their buildings. MARY LOU MCCARTLE,

Aurora

No value on human life

How we can allow violence to surround us in the news, TV shows, movies and then act surprised when that violence comes to dwell in our homes? How can we be surprised when children show no real value for human life when we have desensitized them to how precious life is? When did we abdicate our roles as parents and allow a warped society to establish values for our children? As long as parents tolerate a total lack of value, we will continue to reap what we sow. We have control. We can turn offthe TV; we can stop financing violent movies; we can demand accountability, both morally and legally, of our Legislature. We can show our children what we should really stand up for. BARBARA TINSLEY,

Aurora

Live without weapons

We are both deeply saddened and outraged by the events at Columbine High School. We are the parents of a third-year college student and a senior at Denver South High. Given the events of this nationally recognized tragedy, we are hopeful that a peaceful anti-gun rally will assemble during the upcoming NRA visit. We hope that tens of thousands of people who believe that our society can live without weapons of destruction will assemble in honor of our fallen students and send an impressive message to our country and its leaders. Thank you for what you are doing. JOHN A. AND LORI ROSS,

Denver

Tighten up gun laws

Logic says that easy accessibility to guns makes it easier to have tragedies like Columbine. Let's tell our lawmakers to tighten up the laws. GERALD L. MERE,

Denver

Spend more on education

Now maybe we can spend less money on concealed weapon lobbying and more on education. Does it take the loss of our life to see that we are not taking care of children the way we should? My prayers are with the families and friends of this tragic incident. STEVEN ROZIC,

Denver

A blemish forever

What has happened will blemish Colorado forever. The sick, twisted part: Whoever this Trench Coat Mafia is, look at the people the members have hurt and what they've left behind. Look at the people still suffering from what they've done. Somebody better learn from this. ALAN CARTER,

Loveland

Sympathy to all

Our prayers and deepest sympathy call out to the students, faculty and families of Columbine High School. MARY CALLAWAY,

Highlands Ranch

Still much to learn

We have not learned anything from Waco, from Oklahoma, from the postal workers, from many dysfunctional corporations. It is a two-way street. The symbolic meaning is: Don't impose your self-righteous, heartless assessment on someone you assume to know. We need to pay attention. Our kids ... need to be taught. And nobody's doing it, because money is the all-mighty God. GERDA GREMSHAW,

Parker

America a sick society

This recent school shooting is yet another manifestation that America is a sick, sick, sick society. It's sick to the core. Edward Gibbons in "Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire" said, "Each society has in it the seeds of its own demise." Well, this is a society going down the tubes. Unless this thing is corrected, and corrected forthwith and positively, it is only going to get worse. I am surprised that there are not more of these types of episodes, with the free availability of firearms. PAUL LONG,

Golden

Clues ignored?

These killers surely left many clues that they were going over the edge. Surely a kid who is making bombs in his house should be suspect about what they were doing. Parents surely must have known. Friends must have known. Teachers must have known there was something strange about them. FRED SAGE,

Boulder

Pray together

These things happen because the Bible has been taken out of school. If they would put our Bibles back in our schools, I don't think we'd have these messes happening to our children. If families would pray together, they would stay together. ANITA HERNANDEZ

Show some compassion

Something has got to change. It's not all about the guns. It's about teachers and kids showing some compassion. There's a reason why these kids felt like outcasts. Parents and teachers need to teach their children it's OK to be different. Kids need to think about the repercussions when they lash out at others for not being cool or in the in crowd. Makes you wonder if all the parents and teachers are so far removed that they don't remember what happened to them when they were in school. CHRISTINE WARREN,

Denver

Kids out of control

I believe this all stems from parents having no rights anymore. Kids are out of control. We need to go back to the days when kids were spanked as punishment. This is a horrible, horrible thing that has happened to all these children. DEBRA COOK,

Northglenn

All families affected

I'd like to express my extreme sympathy to the parents and everyone touched by this senseless violence, especially the parents of Eric Harris and Dylan Klebold. It's difficult enough to imagine the grief of the families who've lost someone in this tragedy, but to have lost your child, and know that this child was responsible, is completely incomprehensible. My heart and prayers go out to them. MAURINE ROBERTS,

Denver

Be more tolerant

If Americans were more tolerant of each other, our children wouldn't be doing this to each other. We don't promote equality among all our people. We're always telling the rest of the world how their lives must be run. We need to start in our own home, teaching our children equality. And then we won't have people picking on other people, and hating other people because they're different. DANIEL O'DONNELL,

Aurora

Heart is hurting

As a grandma, my heart is hurting. All families have been affected by the horrors at Columbine High School. This is a devastation that will not be easy for the young people and you to overcome. B.A. CARLSON,

Arvada

Teachers taught to love kids

As a former teacher, I'm upset about the comments from House Majority Leader Doug Dean: If they would have a concealed weapons permit, they would have intervened in situations like this. Teachers are not taught to kill children. We are taught to love, protect and teach them. The teachers put their lives on the line Tuesday to protect our children, not to shoot at the other children. There is something very wrong in this state when we have legislators who think the way to solve the problem is topick up a gun. JULIA HICKS, Westminster

People kill people

Anybody who could separate this gun control issue from what happened yesterday is ludicrous. To say that more guns would have helped the situation is just out of my mind. Guns don't kill people. People kill people. I say that people without guns don't kill people. This victim prefers criminals without guns. DEBBIE NIGBOR,

Golden

Guns don't solve problems

Gov. Owens and the Legislature feel that a concealed-weapons bill has no relation to this tragedy. He asks us to look at how we teach our children. He fails to realize that by making more guns available, we as a society are teaching our children that you solve problems with guns. There will always be children with problems. More people carrying guns is not the answer. We need to do something to stop children from believing that shooting is the way to solve crime and problems. BILL GOLDBERG,

Denver

A few who always hate

I am 13 years old. In schools there have always been an unpleasant few who harbor such feelings as hatred to both fellow students and faculty. These are not just adolescents. They are children or so-called adults. ... To further unyoke the availability of weapons is to ignite the match and a fuse - the fuse of pent-up hatred contained in these depraved individuals who commit these atrocities. ROBINSON PHILLIPS,

Littleton

Enforce responsibilities

It is time for responsibilities to be enforced by our society. It's too bad that we have emphasized individual rights so that the group collectively is threatened all the time. We need responsibility. We need discipline in the schools and in our society regarding our children. JEROLD M. SUFFIAN,

Boulder

Fix school policies

I live about five minutes from Columbine High School. My children go to Jeffco schools. This is a great tragedy. I feel as I know most of us do - very deep anguish and loss over this. It's something we never thought would happen in our community, yet it has. I think it's time for the Jefferson County Board, the superintendents, the people in charge, to make some changes. I've been worried over the open-door policy in my children's school. KAREN DEIHIMI,

Littleton

