

I was embarrassed when the Illinois man retrieved the 15 crosses he built to memorialize the Columbine dead. It was such a loving gesture and I ached to see it criticized because he included a cross for each suspect as well as the victims. But at the same time I understand the criticism and anger. TOM MOLLER

Denver

Thoughtful gesture

I have a suggestion that, hopefully, will make everyone happy. Because Eric Harris and Dylan Klebold killed Christians for believing in God makes it totally inappropriate for them to be remembered with crosses. I would suggest that some other form of marker be used and that they be put in an area away from the 13 victims. I do think that was a wonderful gesture for Greg Zanis to make and deliver the crosses. They should become a permanent memorial in the park. PHYL HENDERSON

Greenwood Village

How to get along

A carpenter from out of state made and erected 15 wooden crosses without getting any permits or asking anyone's opinion. Thirteen for the victims, and two for the murderers. People wrote things on the two crosses, and draped them in black plastic utterly secure in the knowledge that they did not belong there. Other people made them stop, and pulled the plastic off, utterly sure that they did belong there. The father of one of the victims removed and destroyed the two crosses, utterly certain thatthey should not be eulogized beside the victims. The carpenter came and took the 13 crosses down without explanation.

Is it any wonder that small disagreements come to blows and even shootings? It's not the guns, and it's not the lack of Christian morality, and it's not the lack of prayer in schools, and it's not the jocks, and it's not Charlton Heston, and it's not the drugs.

It's the fact that we've forgotten how to get along. If there's any small disagreement with anyone, the proper behavior seems to be to scream, argue, sue and shoot. We aren't able to talk things over anymore. We can't find a middle ground. We can't agree to disagree, and we can't work together. SARA BETH SHEPARD

Denver

Destroyed by demons

In his anger and grief, Brian Rohrbaugh seems to have misunderstood the message of the 14th and 15th crosses put up by Greg Zanis. The crosses did not "honor" Eric Harris and Dylan Klebold, nor was their message one of forgiving them.

Rather, they said that the demons which drove Harris and Klebold - even were those demons wholly of their own making - destroyed those two young men as completely and as senselessly as their victims. It is appropriate to see this as part of the tragedy, and to mourn it. GARY WILLIAMS

Golde