	

Parents at fault

Help me out here. Two boys, ages 13 and 11, heavily armed, gun down innocent people, and I have yet to hear where their parents are. Where are the people who raised these two children? Considering the enormity of this crime and the devastation to so many families, don't you think the parents of these two ought to be held accountable? The apple never falls far from the tree. Where are the parents? DAN LENIHAN Northglenn Lock up the guns

Instead of wringing our hands in despair and attempting to try the juvenile suspects as adults, let us reduce access to guns. I would like to see guns kept at privately run, licensed storage centers, which could double as firing ranges. Guns would be released off-site only to owners presenting valid hunting licenses in season, with storage centers assuming liability for the return of released weapons. Background checks would be possible for all gun transactions, since private sales would only take place at these centers. Civilized societies rely upon police for protection, and it is time we stopped kidding ourselves about gun ownership offering protection against government tyranny. The struggles against the Soviet-installed dictatorship in Afghanistan succeeded only after the rebels had surface-to-air missiles. Aside from the terrible toll they take, guns have only trivial purposes in our society, and it is time they be removed from our midst. Without guns, 11-year-old boys cannot become mass murderers. PAUL R. WEST Fort Collins Don't blame guns

I was as horrified with the Arkansas slayings as everyone, especially being the mother of an 11-year-old son.

My father was an avid gun collector and hunter. I learned at a young age how to handle and fire guns for sport. I had adolescent anxieties, however, not once did I reach a point that I felt the need to hurt someone, though I could have easily obtained a firearm. I have never owned a gun or wanted one, but at age 11, my biggest upset was not getting my ears pierced! (I didn't kill my mother over it.)

Here is the point: A gun did not drive 11- and 13-year-old boys to carry out such a deplorable crime. Rage and violence motivated these children. Anyone determined to perform evil will find any means to see their plan through.

Isn't it time that we discover what causes children to reach the point of aggression and hate that they want to, and unfortunately often do, kill? L. WILKES Denver Pay heed to upsets

As a parent, my heart bleeds for the families whose children were killed in Jonesboro, Ark. As a citizen, I am appalled. As a former member of the newspaper industry, I am revolted by the media's rush to display home videos and snapshots of the "alleged" assassins.

We have juvenile psychotics trying to blow up buildings, burn down schools, poison teachers, stab and shoot their peers. They are an infinitesimal portion of the population - an aberration, to be sure, but still an incredibly tiny percentage of a reasonably healthy segment of our population.

How do kids get there, and what do we do about it? Parental licensing comes to mind but is probably neither politically correct nor appropriate. We will hear from the media and other groups on the fringe of intelligence regarding the need for stricter gun controls, but - while politically correct - this is also inappropriate. Public dismemberment has appeal, and would likely take the "coolness" away from copycatting random murder, but that is probably not the answer either.

So what do we do? I suggest we start by paying attention to our children. Take notice when things are not right. When your children need help, get it for them. If your children make mistakes, forgive and then make absolutely certain that your child suffers the consequences.

Accountability works. Consequences work. Ignorance and neglect do not. HAROLD JONES Colorado Springs Blame gun owners

I've been waiting with bated breath for Tanya Metaska and the other NRA gun nuts to explain to us how, if the students (or teachers) at Westside Middle School in Jonesboro had just been packing heat, the slaughter would never have happened. I just checked their web site, and they are strangely silent.

There is now an outcry because the boys are too young to be tried as adults and may get off with less than 10 years in prison. That isn't right. There are crimes too serious to be handled by the juvenile justice system, but let's also go after the source of the weapons. They bear the blame as well.

Let's tell gun owners that we hold them responsible for the security of their weapons and the mistakes they might make with them. They are quick to claim their "right" to own any sort of weapon, but when something bad happens, they don't seem nearly as eager to claim responsibility. TOM JARRELL Denver Restore innocence

The issue is not gun control. America has lost its innocence. The days of getting excited by just holding your sweetheart's hand have been replaced by a romp in the hay on the first date. "Yes, sir" and "No, ma'am" have been replaced by an "in your face" attitude.

We seem to no longer place a value on life. We see this in our movies, on TV and our video games. We no longer value the old and afflicted, or those who are unborn. We hear in our schools how life "just happened," and we don't hear how it was created and what a great gift life is.

I don't have an answer for how to restore out lost innocence. I just really believe it has to be done. MIKE MARTIN Castle Rock