Stricter controls on gun sales, an assault weapons ban, and better mental health screening and services could reduce the odds that another Newtown massacre will occur.
Clinging to the NRA's interpretation of the Second Amendment and doing nothing virtually guarantees that a massacre will happen again. No one needs an assault rifle to hunt or to protect their home. The Founding Fathers would be stunned at our failure to take common-sense steps to protect public safety and the lives of our children.
In memory of the children and educators who died in Newtown, contact your congressmen and demand action.

Count your blessings if you've never been impacted by the loss of a family member to gun violence, whether it is the senseless mass killing of innocents at school; a movie theater; a political rally; a mall, or a place of worship, or had your sense of safety shattered by random gunfire entering your home.
As a Vietnam War combat veteran, and as a law enforcement officer and retired law enforcement executive, I have seen and participated in my share of violence. However, nothing prepared me for the call from the medical examiner attempting to identify a niece because she had my business card in her pocket. She was shot to death.
I don't hate guns. I just don't have any use for them.

President Obama is right. We must change.
This era of easy access to handguns and assault weapons must end. Already, there are those who are defending their right to bear arms. Why? Nobody is asking folks who hunt to give up their rifles -- but you don't hunt deer, elk, turkey, rabbit, duck or squirrel with assault weapons.
We must have the loopholes which lead to gun ownership at gun shows closed. The NRA bears most of the responsibility for our current gun culture and aura of fear. Why would we value the "right" of a gun collector to have a weapon of mass destruction over the safety and lives of our children?
Our future actions must also be coupled with conversations regarding mental health care.
